When to use Passé Composé - word document:
	One time event
		Example:
			À 18 ans, j'ai terminé l'école secondaire : I finished high school at 18
			
	Actions - Main events, actions of a story
		Example:
			Hier, je suis allé au cinéma. Puis, je suis rentré et j'ai mangé le diner: Yesterday, I went to the movie. Then, I went back home and ate dinner
			
	Interrupting action
		Example:
			Je faisais de la guitare lorsque le téléphone a sonné: I was playing guitar when the phone rang
			
			


règle + exercise auxiliaire AVOIR - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/tap2.html:
	The passé composé is the most commonly used tense to refer to actions completed in the past. The passé composé may be translated into English in three different ways depending on the context. 
	
	Tex a mangé toute la viande!
		Tex ate all the meat!
		Tex has eaten all the meat!
		Tex did eat all the meat!
		
	Formation
		This tense is called the passé composé becuase it is composed of two elements: the present tense of an auxiliary verb (either avoir or être), followed by a past participle:
			passé composé = present tense of auxiliary + past participle
			
		Note that in most instances the auxiliary verb is avoir, but some verbs require être as the auxiliary
		For regular verbs with an infinitive ending in -er, the past participle is formed by replacing the final -er of the infinitive with -é. The past participle (parlé) is pronounced the same as the infinitive (parler)
		even though they are spelled differently. 
		
		parler 'to talk'
			
		j'ai parlé 						- I (have) talked
		tu as parlé 					- You (have) talked
		il, elle / on a parlé			- He, she (it) / one (has) talked
		
		
	The past participle of regular verbs with an infinitive ending in -ir is formed by dropping the final -r from the infinitive. For example, the past participle of finir is fini. 
		
		finir 'to finish'
		
		j'ai fini						- I (have) finished
		tu as fini						- You (have) finished
		il, elle / on a parlé			- He, she (It) / one (has) talked
		nous avons parlé				- We (have) talked
		vous avez parlé					- You (have) talked
		ils / elles ont parlé			- They (have) talked
		
	The past participle of regular verbs with an infinitive ending in -re is formed by replacing the final -re of the infinitive with -u. For example, the past participle of perdre is perdu.
		
		perdre 'to lose' 
		
		j'ai perdu						- I (have) lost
		tu as perdu						- You (have) lost
		il, elle / on a perdu			- He, she (It) / one (has) lost
		nous avons perdu				- We (have) lost
		vous avez perdu					- You (have) lost
		ils / elles ont perdu 			- They (have) lost
		
	
	Note that many verbs, however, have irregular past participles. The past participles of many common irregular verbs which have avoir as an auxiliary are listed below:
		infinitive 	translation 	past participle
		
		avoir 		to have 		eu
		être 		to be 			été
		faire 		to do 			fait
		ouvrir 		to open 		ouvert
		prendre 	to take 		pris
		mettre 		to put 			mis
		suivre 		to follow 		suivi
		boire 		to drink 		bu
		croire 		to believe 		cru
		voir 		to see 			vu
		savoir 		to know 		su
		connaître 	to know 		connu
		dire 		to say 			dit
		lire 		to read 		lu
		écrire 		to write 		écrit
		pouvoir 	to be able to 	pu
		vouloir 	to want 		voulu
		devoir 		to have to 		dû
		tenir 		to hold 		tenu
		recevoir 	to receive 		reçu

		Singular verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Je (I): -e
				Tu (You): -es
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -e
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Je (I): -is
				Tu (You): -is
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -it
			For regular -re verbs:
				Je (I): -s
				Tu (You): -s
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -t
				Plural verb endings:
		Plural verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Nous (We): -issons
				Vous (You): -issez
				Ils/elles (They): -issent
			For regular -re verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
	
	Negation of the passé composé is formed by placing the ne ... pas around the conjugated verb, which, in this case, is the auxiliary avoir. 
	Example:
		Oh, regardez! Tex a mangé toute la viande! Tammy, au contraire, n'a pas mangé de viande! Elle est végétarienne, comma la plupart des tatous
		Oh, look! Tex ate all the meat! Tammy, on the other hand, did not eat any meat! She is a vegatarian, like most armadillos
	
	
	
	Read the following dialogue:
		Joe-Bob arrive chez Tammy. Il meurt de faim. Mais il est trop tard. 	  	
		Joe-Bob arrives at Tammy's house. He is dying of hunger. But it is too late.
		
		Joe-Bob: Tammy, j'ai perdu ma collection de noix. Est-ce que je peux dîner avec vous? 	  	
		Joe-Bob: Tammy, I lost my nut collection. Can I have dinner with y'all?
		
		Tammy: Je suis désolée, Joe-Bob. Tex a fini toute la viande. A mon avis, il a trop mangé. 	  	
		Tammy: I am sorry Joe-Bob. Tex finished all the meat. In my opinion, he ate too much.
		
		Joe-Bob: Ce n'est pas grave Tammy. Je peux trouver quelque chose dans la cuisine ... Mon dieu, Tammy! Est-ce que tu as vu? Tex a dégobillé partout. C'est dégueulasse! 	  	
		Joe-Bob: It's okay Tammy. I can find something in the kitchen ... My god, Tammy! Have you seen? Tex threw up everywhere. It's disgusting!
		
		Tammy: Ça ne m'étonne pas. Ce petit tatou carnivore, il n'est pas aussi évolué que moi! 	  	
		Tammy: That doesn't surprise me. That little carnivorous armadillo. He is not as enlightened as I am!
		
		

Passé composé (Composed past tense) règle et structure / structure and rule - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/tap3.html:
	There are several past tenses in French, and each is used in very specific situations. The passé composé is the most common past tense; it is used to relate actions or events
	completed in the past. The passé composé may be translated into English in three different ways depending on the context. 
	
	E.g.
		Tex est allé à l'Alamo		Tex went to the Alamo ; Tex has gone to the Alamo ; Tex did go to the Alamo
		
	
	Formation
		The passé composé consists of two parts, the present tense of an auxiliary, or helping verb (either avoir or être), and a part participle. 
		In most instances the auxiliary verb used is avoir
		
		passé composé = present tense of auxiliary + past participle
		
		However, several intransitive verbs, like aller (to go), require the auxiliary être instead. Note that the past participle agrees with the 
		subject in number and in gender
		
	aller  'to go'
	je suis allé(e), I went (have gone) 		nous sommes allé(e)s, we went (have gone)
	tu es allé(e), you went (have gone) 		vous êtes allé(e)(s), you went (have gone)
	il / on est allé, he / one went (has gone) 	ils sont allés, they went, (have gone)
	elle est allée, she went (has gone) 		elles sont allées, they went, (have gone)
	
	
	The negation is formed by placing ne ... pas around the conjugated verb, which in this case, is the auxiliary être: je ne suis pas allé(e), Tu n'es pas allé(e), etc.
	
	The Alamo of être
		Many intransitive verbs (Verbs not followed by a direct object), take être in the passé composé. Many of these verbs also indicate motion. They are verbs of coming and going. Even naître (to be born) 
		mourir (to die) can be thought of as coming and going in metaphorical terms. The Alamo d'Être illustrates this group of verbs
		
		Moirir	Monter	Partir	(Re)venir	Aller	Arriver		(R)entrer	Tomber	Descendre	Sortir	Rester	Passer	Naître
		
	A few of these verbs of movement (monter, descendre, sortir, passer, retourner) may sometimes take a direct object, thus becoming transitive. When they do, auxiliary used in avoir, instead of être. 
	Example:
		Tex est sorti					- Tex went out
		Tex n'a pas sorti la pubelle	- Tex did not take out the garbage
		
	It is important to note that many intransitive verbs of movement, like courir and marcher, do not use être but avoir. The pronominal verbs form another important group of verbs which use être as the auxiliary in the passé
	composé. 
	
	

	Irregular past participles
		The past participles of the verbs that use être as an auxiliary are regular except for the following:
		
		infinitive 	translation 	past participle
		venir 		to come 		venu
		devenir 	to become 		devenu
		revenir 	to come back 	revenu
		naître 		to be born 		né
		mourir 		to die 			mort
		
		
	agreement of the past participle
		The past participle of a verb which takes être agrees in gender and number with the subject; that means a -e is added to the past participle to agree with a feminine subject and a -s is added for a plural subject.
		If the subject is feminine plural, -es is added. 
		
		Joe-Bob: Tex, Corey et toi, vous êtes rentrés de l'Alamo											
		Joe-Bob: Tex, did you and Corey come back from the Alamo?
		
		Tex: Oui. Mias Tammy et Bette sont 								
		Tex: Yes. But Tammy and Bette stayed in San Antonio to go shopping
		
		Corey: Tu n'as pas entendu? Tout du'un coup Tammy est devenue toute pâle et elle est tombée dans la rivière!
		Corey: Didn't you hear? all of a sudden Tammy turned very pale and she fell in the river!
		
		Joe-Bob: Mais, qu'est-ce qui s'est passé?
		Joe-Bob: But, what happened?
		
		Corey: Calme-toi. Elle n'est pas morte! Tex et moi sommes arrivés pour la sauver!
		Corey: Calm down. She didn't die! Tex and I arrived to save her!
		
		
Zoom session on May 06, 2023:
	Je mange
	Je veux un café avec du sucre et de la crème. 
	Je mange des céréales avec du lait
	Je mange du riz avec des légumes et du poulet
	Je fais de la randonnée, du tennis et du sport
	
	les articles partitifs:
		unspecified quantity - du / de la / de l' / des
		
		eat, 	drink,	buy,	 take
		manger / boire / acheter / prendre
		
	Look at the Zoom call slideshow for how to use passé composé
	
	Qu'as tu fait hier?		 		- What did you do yesterday
	Sara yesterday drank tea 		- Sarah a bu du thé hier
	Elle boit du thé		 		- She is drinking tea
	Elle va boire du thé	 		- She is going to drink tea
	Elle n'ai pas du thé	 		- She is not drinking tea
	Elle est allée au restaurant	-> elle n'est pas allée au restaurant
	
	
	
List of past participles - https://mycourselink.lakeheadu.ca/content/enforced/69412-126120/pastparticiplelist.pdf?_&d2lSessionVal=iSpwzyI2FPEO7wqsz2V6c8SfX&ou=111362:
	Les participes passés
-É 
	Tous les verbes en -
	ER + Aller.
	Aimé
	Mangé
	Allé
	Travaillé
	Regardé
	Marché
	Joué
	Porté
-I
	Sortir < sorti
	Grandir < grandi
	Finir < fini
	Choisir < choisi
	Rire < ri
-IS / -IT
	Inscrire < inscrit
	Prendre < pris
	Dire < dit
	Mettre < mis
-U
	Devoir < dû
	Savoir < su
	Devenir < devenu
	Courir < couru
	Descendre <
	descendu
	Recevoir < reçu
	Connaitre < connu
	Vouloir < voulu
	Voir < vu
	Vivre < vécu
	Tenir < tenu
	Lire < lu
	Venir < venu
	Boire < bu
	Pouvoir < pu
Autrés
	Avoir < eu
	Être < été
	Faire < fait
	Mourir < mort
	Ouvrir < ouvert
	Offrir < offert
	Naitre < né
	
	
	
Les participes passés
-É 
	Tous les verbes en -
	ER + Aller.
	Aimé
	Mangé
	Allé
	Travaillé
	Regardé
	Marché
	Joué
	Porté
-I
	Sortir < sorti
	Grandir < grandi
	Finir < fini
	Choisir < choisi
	Rire < ri
	-IS / -IT
	Inscrire < inscrit
	Prendre < pris
	Dire < dit
	Mettre < mis
-U
	Devoir < dû
	Savoir < su
	Devenir < devenu
	Courir < couru
	Descendre <
	descendu
	Recevoir < reçu
	Connaitre < connu
	Vouloir < voulu
	Voir < vu
	Vivre < vécu
	Tenir < tenu
	Lire < lu
	Venir < venu
	Boire < bu
	Pouvoir < pu
Autres
	Avoir < eu
	Être < été
	Faire < fait
	Mourir < mort
	Ouvrir < ouvert
	Offrir < offert
	Naitre < né
	
	
	
More passé composé - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/tap4.html#negation:
	In the passé composé, pronominal verbs are conjugated with être as their auxiliary. Past participles of pronominal verbs are formed like nonpronominal past participles. Note that the reflexive pronoun 
	(me, te, se, nous, vous, se) precedes the auxiliary. 
	
	s'amuser  'to have fun'
	je me suis amusé(e), I had fun 			nous nous sommes amusé(e)s, we had fun
	tu t'es amusé(e), you had fun 			vous vous êtes amusé(e)(s), you had fun
	il / on s'est amusé, he / one had fun 	ils se sont amusés, they had fun
	elle s'est amusée, she had fun 			elles se sont amusées, they had fun'
	
	
	past participle agreement
		It is important to note that, in most cases, the past participle of pronominal verbs agree in gender and number with the gender and number of the reflexive pronoun, that is, an e is added to the
		past participle to agree with a feminine subject and an s is added for a plural subject. 
		
		Tammy: Je me suis réveillée très tôt ce matin
		Tammy: I got up really early this morning
		
		Tex: Moi, je me suis réveillé très tard!
		Tex: I got up really late!
		
	
	past participle agreement: exceptions
		The past participle does not agree if there is a direct object following the verb which is a part of the body:
			
			Tammy: Je me suis lavée
			Tammy: I washed
			
			Et ensuite je me suis lavé les cheveux
			And then, I washed my hair
			
		In the second example, the direct object les cheveux is placed after the verb, so there is no agreement.
		Furthermore, in cases where the reflexive pronoun is an indirect object rather than a direct object, as in the verb se parler (parler à), there is no agreement. 
			
			Tammy: Puis, Bette et moi, nous nous sommes parlé
			Tammy: Then, Bette and I talked to each other 
			
	
	Negation
		In the negative, the ne precedes the reflexive pronoun and the pas follows the auxiliary:
			je ne me suis pas amusé(e)
			tu ne t'es pas amusé(e)
			il / on ne s'est pas amusé
			elle ne s'est pas amusée
			nous ne nous sommes pas amusé(e)(s)
			vous ne vous êtes pas amusé(e)(s)
			ils ne se sont pas amusés
			elles ne se sont pas amusées
			
		Example dialogue:
			Tammy: Bonjour Tex! Oh là là! Tu ne t'es pas rasé ce matin?
			Tammy: Hi Tex! Oh dear! You did not shave this morning!
			
			Tex: Oh ça va hein! Mon réveil n'a pas sonné! Je me suis réveillé trop tard. Et toi, tu t'es rasée?
			Tex: Oh that's enough, ok! My alarm clock did not go off! I woke up too late. Did you shave
			
			Tammy: Monsieur Tex s'est lavé du pied gauche aujourd'hui!
			Tammy: Mister Tex got up on the wrong side of the bed today!
			
			
			
Être or Avoir in the passé composé in French video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R7CMGVsanu8:
	La passé composé = auxiliary verb + past participle
	
	I have played
	I had played
	I would have played
	
	être 	(to be)	
	avoir 	(to have)
	
	You played in the passé composé 
	
	The verb endings for "être" in the present tense are:
		- Je suis (I am)
		- Tu es (You are singular, informal)
		- Il/Elle/On est (He/She/One is)
		- Nous sommes (We are)
		- Vous êtes (You are plural, formal or informal)
		- Ils/Elles sont (They are)
		
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé with "être" as the auxiliary verb:
		- Je suis allé(e) (I went, masculine/feminine)
		- Tu es allé(e) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Il/Elle/On est allé(e) (He/She/One went, masculine/feminine)
		- Nous sommes allé(e)s (We went, masculine/feminine)
		- Vous êtes allé(e)(s) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Ils/Elles sont allé(e)s (They went, masculine/feminine)
		
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" (to have) in the present tense and the past tense:
		Present tense:
			- J'ai (I have)
			- Tu as (You have singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a (He/She/One has)
			- Nous avons (We have)
			- Vous avez (You have plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont (They have)
		The past tense of "avoir" is used as an auxiliary verb to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
		Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé:
		Past tense:
			- J'ai eu (I had)
			- Tu as eu (You had singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a eu (He/She/One had)
			- Nous avons eu (We had)
			- Vous avez eu (You had plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont eu (They had)
			
			

TIME MARKERS (PAST/PRESENT/FUTURE TENSE)

hier					yesterday
hier matin				yesterday morning
hier après-midi			yesterday afternoon
avant-hier				the day before yesterday
il y a quelques jours	few days ago
il y a trois jours		three days ago
le week-end dernier		Last weekend
la semaine dernière		last week
l'année dernière		last year
le mois dernier			Last month




Module 6 grammar recap - Recapitulatif de grammaire:
	Passé Composé - Use: When to use this past tense:
		Passé Composé
			One-time event
				À 18 ans, j'ai terminé l'école secondaire : I finished high school at 18
			
			Actions
				Main events or actions of a story
				Hier, je suis allé au cinéma. Puis, je suis rentré et j'ai mangé le diner: yesterday I went to the movie. Then, I went back home and ate dinner
				
			Interrupting action
				Je faisais de la guitare lorsque le téléphone a sonné: I was playing guitar when the phone rang
	
	
	Passé Composé - Composed past tense
		The passé composé is composed of 2 elements: the present tense of an auxiliary verb (either avoir or être) followed by a past participle:
			Subject + present tense of auxiliary + past participle 
			J'ai joué 		- I (have) played
			il est allé 	- He (has) gone / he went
				
		For regular verbs with an infinitive ending in -er, the past participle is formed by replacing the final -er of the infinitive with -é 
		Note that in most instances the auxiliary verb is avoir, but some verbs require être as the auxiliary
		
	
	Passé Composé - Auxiliaire avoir
		Note that in most instances the auxiliary verb is avoir
		Note that the past participle does not agree with the subject but it can in specific structures that will not be tackled in this course
		
		J'ai joué
		Tu es étudié
		Elle/il a mangé
		Nous avons regardé
		Vous avez parlé
		Elles/Ils ont porté
		
		
		
	Passé Composé - IR (2nd category verbs)
		-IR regular 2nd category verbs at the past tense:
			The past participle of regular verbs with an infinitive ending in -ir is formed by dropping the final -r from the infinitive. For example, the past participle of finir is fini 
			
			j'ai fini 					- I (have) finished
			tu as fini					- You (have) finished
			il, elle / on a fini 		- He, she (it) / one (has) finished
			nous avons fini 			- We (have) finished
			vous avez fini				- You (have) finished
			ils / elles ont fini		- They (have) finished
			
	
	
	Passé Composé - Negation	
		The negation of the passé composé is formed by placing ne ... pas around the conjugated verb, which, for this past tense, is either the auxiliary avoir or être
			J'ai joué 		- je n'ai pas joué
			Elle a choisi	- elle n'a pas choisi
			
			
	Passé Composé - Auxiliare être
		Passé Composé with être
			However, all reflexive verbs require the auxiliary être instead
				Je me suis levé(e)
				Tu t'es levé(e)
				Elle s'est levée
				Il s'est levé 
				Nous nous sommes levés (es)
				Vous vous êtes levés(es)
				Elles se sont levées
				Ils se sont levés
			
			Several verbs of movement like aller (to go), entrer (to go in), sortir (to go out) will also require the auxiliary être
			
				Je suis allé(e)
				Tu es sorti(e)
				Elle est allée
				Il est rentré
				Nous sommes allés (es)
				Vous êtes sortis (es)
				Elles sont allées
				Ils sont rentrés
				
			Note that with être the past participle agrees with the subject in number and in gender but there are exceptions (not tackled in this course)
			
	
	
	Passé Composé - Auxiliary être
			All these following verbs are using the auxiliary être + their past participle:
				Mourir
				Partir
				Monter
				(Re)venir
				Aller
				Arriver
				(R)entrer
				Tomber
				Descendre
				Sortir
				Rester
				Passer
				Naître
			
			
			
	Passé Composé - Auxiliary être
		All these following verbs are using the auxiliary être + their past participle
			Les verbes conjugués avec être
			
			Infinitif				Participle passé
				Devenir					Devenue(e)(s)
				Revenir					Revenu(e)(s)
				Monter					Monté(e)(s)
				Rentrer					Sorti(e)(s)
				Sortir					Venu(e)(s)
				Venir					Arrivé(s)(s)
				Arriver					Né(e)(s)
				Naître					Descendu(e)(s)
				Descendre				Entré(e)(s)
				Entrer					Retourné(e)(s)
				Retourner				Tombé(e)(s)
				Entrer					Allé(e)(s)
				Tomber					Mort(e)(s)
				Rester					Parti(e)(s)
				Aller
				Mourir
				Partir
				
				
	
	Passé Composé - Negation
		The negation of the passé composé is formed by placing ne ... pas around the conjugated verb, which, for this past tense, is either the auxiliary avoir or être
			J'ai joué 		- je n'ai pas joué
			Il est allé 	- il n'est pas allé

		Be areful with the reflexive verbs, the reflexive pronoun is attached to the auxiliary être
			Je me suis levé		- Je ne me suis pas levé
			Elle s'est levée 	- Elle ne s'est pas levée 
			
			
	
	Passé Composé - Verbs to memorize
		You have to memorize the conjugation of the verbs that you have learned during this course:
			Tu as eu 			(avoir)
			j'ai fini			(finir)
			tu as mangé 		(-er regular verbs)
			il s'est levé 		(all reflexive verbs tackled in class)
			J'ai fait 			(faire)
			Tu as pris 			(prendre)
			Elle a bu			(boire)
			Elles ont été 		(être)
			Nous avons porté	(porter)
			Vous avez pu		(pouvoir)
			Ils ont dû			(devoir)
			Nous sommes allés   (es) (aller)
			Vous avez mis		(mettre)
			Ils ont voulu		(vouloir)
			
			
	
	Marqueurs temporels / time markers:
		Hier						Yesterday
		Hier matin					Yesterday morning
		Hier après-midi				Yesterday afternoon
		
			
			
Zoom call on May 08, 2022:
	Passé composé
		avoir:
			j'ai mangé			- je n'ai pas mangé
			nous avons étudié
			ty as faut
			
		être:
			je suis allé(e) 	- je ne suis pas allé
			elle est allée
			nous sommes allés
			
		je me suis levé - je ne me suis pas levé(e)
		nous nous sommes couchés - nous ne nous sommes pas couchés
		
		
		5 questions:
			Quand			- When
			Où				- Where
			Quel (le)		- Which
			Qui				- Who
			Que				- What
			
		
		2 questions with answers for the first 2
			Quand as-tu allé nager le week-end dernier  	- Where did you go swimming last weekend?
			Où as-tu mangé dîné hier?						- Where did you eat dinner yesterday?
			
		
		Quel jour avez vous fait du vélo?
		Avec qui avez vous mangé
		Qu'avez vous mangé pour le souper? Vous avez mangé
		Que mangez vous pour le souper?
		
		j'ai aimé 		- I liked
		j'ai mangé 		- I ate
		Quel chapeau aimes-tu?	Quel chapeau as-tu aimé?
		
		
		Farmer head in crate story:
			A small step ladder broke and he fell into the egg crate - Un petit escabeau s'est cassé et il est tombé dans la caisse à œufs. 
			
		
		Common quiz mistakes:
			se reveiller : il s'est réveillé 
			la salade
			le salade
			un peu de ... 
			il mange un peau de légumes
			je ne bois pas d'eau
			
			une tasse de lait
			je mange un dessert (sweet food)
			...		 un désert	(sandy landscape)