Irregular verb venir (to come):
	Irregular in the present tense. 
	
	venir (to come):
	je viens				nous venons
	tu viens				vous venez
	il/elle/on vient		ils/elles viennent
	past participle: venu
	
	
	Verbs conjugated like venir include:
		devenir (to become)
		revenir (to come back)
		tenir (to hold, keep)
		tenir à (to value, care about)
		
	
	Bette: Tiens, Tammy, qu'est-ce que tu deviens?	
		Hey, Tammy, what have you been up to? (literally, what have you become?)
		
	Tammy: Oh, je prépare une grande fête pour l'anniversaire de Tex. Corey et Joe-Bob, ils viennent. Tout le monde vient, bien sûr, sauf Fiona. Elle n'est pas très sociable. 
		Oh, I'm preparing a big party for Tex's birthday. Corey and Joe-Bob, they're coming. Everyone's coming, of course, except Fiona She's not very sociable. 
		
	Bette: Une fête ... Eh bien moi, je suis très sociable. Miaou ... 
		A party ... hmm. Well, I am very sociable. Miaow ...
		
	

(re)VENIR DU + nom masculin singulier
	Nom commun
		Tu viens du cinéma.
		Il revient du restaurant. 	
	Pays, régions
		Nous venons du Japon.
		Vous venez du Maroc.

🔷 (re)VENIR DES +
	Nom commun
		Il revient des toilettes.
		Vous revenez des champs.
	Pays, régions
		Ils viennent des Antilles.
		Vous venez des Philippines.
		Elles viennent des États-Unis.
		Nous venons des Pays-bas

🔷 (re)VENIR  DE LA /DE +
	+ nom féminin
	Nom commun
		Je viens de la chambre.
		Tu viens de la salle.
		Il vient de la mairie. 	
	Pays, régions, villes	
		Elles viennent de Belgique.
		Je viens de Cuba.
		Ils viennent de Haïti.
		Ils viennent de France.
		Vous venez de Paris.
		Nous venons de Tokyo.

🔷 (re)VENIR  DE L’ /D’ +
	+ nom singulier commençant par une voyelle
	Nom commun
		Je viens de l’église.
		Vous revenez de l’hôpital.
		Ils viennent de l’hôtel. 	
	Pays, régions, villes	
		Je viens d’Italie.
		Nous venons d’Oran.
		Il vient d’Iran.
		
		
Prepositions are used in expressions which relate where you are, where you are going and where you are coming from. The preposition used in such expressions depends on the geographic location discussed:
										to/in			from
	cities								à				de (d')
	islands								à Paris			d'Austin
										à Cuba			de Tahiti
					
	feminine							en				de (d')
	countries							en France		de France	
	states								en Californie	de Californie
	provinces							en Bourgogne	de Bourgogne
	continents							en Europe		d'Europe
					
					
	masculine							au				du
	countries							au Canada		du Texas
	provinces/states					au Colorado		du Colorado
					
	masculine beginning with a vowel 	en 				de (d')
	countries (l'Iran) 					en Iran 		d'Iran
	provinces/states (l'Ontario) 		en Ontario 		d'Ontario
	Use à for cities
	
	
	
	Tex est né au Texas, bien sûr. Mais par accident il a grandi en Europe. Comment expliquer cette histoire incroyable? 	  	
	Tex was born in Texas, of course, but by accident he grew up in Europe. How de we explain this unbelievable story?
	
	Eh bien, quand il était tout petit, on l'a mis dans un avion avec les bagages à l'aéroport Bush International à Houston. 	  	
	Well, when he was very little, he was put with the luggage in a plane at Bush International Airport in Houston.
	
	Son avion est arrivé à Paris (en France) où il a rencontré des nonnes françaises qui venaient de faire un voyage aux Etats-Unis. Elles arrivaient de Houston, elles aussi. Quelle coïncidence! 	  	
	His plane arrived in Paris (in France) where he met some French nuns who had just taken a trip to the United States. They, too, were arriving from Houston. What a coincidence!
	
	Elles ont eu pitié de ce pauvre tatou égaré et elles l'ont emmené au couvent à Lyon. Tex a vécu heureux chez les nonnes pendant plusieurs années. 	  	
	They took pity on this poor lost armadillo and they took him to their convent in Lyon. Tex lived happily with the nuns for several years.
	
	Malheureusement, un jour il a été expulsé de France, et il est retourné dans son pays natal, c'est-à-dire au Texas! 	  	
	Unfortunately, one day he was deported from France and he returned to his native country, that is, to Texas!
	
	
	
Color adjectives agreements in French - https://www.masteryourfrench.com/grammar/color-adjectives/:
	When used as adjectives, colors follow the general French grammar rule of agreeing with the noun they describe. Colors in French should agree with different genders (feminine/masculine) 
	and numbers (singular/plural). There are four cases that apply to the agreement of colors in French:
		Agreement with masculine singular nouns
		Agreement with masculine plural nouns
		Agreement with feminine singular nouns
		Agreement with feminine plural nouns
		
	The adjectives agree in gender and in number:
		Une feuille verte: a green leaf. The noun leaf 
		
		
	Masculine singular	Masculine plural
	blanc				blancs
	bleu				bleus
	gris				gris
	jaune				jaunes
	marron				marron
	noir				noirs
	orange				orange
	rose				roses
	rouge				rouges
	vert				verts
	violet				violets
	Colors with a feminine noun: singular and plural​

	The worksheet table below summarizes how adjectives of color follow the French grammar agreement rule with feminine singular and feminine plural nouns.
	Feminine singular	Feminine plural
	blanche				blanches
	bleue				bleues
	grise				grises
	jaune				jaunes
	marron				marron
	noire				noires
	orange				orange
	rose				roses
	rouge				rouges
	verte				vertes
	violette			violettes
	Which color adjectives are invariable in French?

	There are some color adjectives in French that don’t follow the general rule of agreement. Such colors are invariable. This means that their spelling never changes. Let’s see some color adjectives that are invariable in French and that are:

		Derived from nouns
		Derived from other languages
		Compound color names:
			color adjective + color adjective
			color adjective + another adjective

	Adjectives derived from nouns

	Most colors from nouns are invariable. That means they will never change the spelling.

	For example, the word marron is a noun. But it’s also an adjective. The right French orthography is:

		les yeux marron, the word marron is invariable.

	Let’s see other examples:

		des yeux noisette: hazel eyes, the word noisette is invariable.
		des fleurs orange: orange flowers, the word orange is invariable.
		des eaux turquoise: turquoise waters, the word turquoise is invariable.
		des murs crème: cream walls, the word crème is invariable.

	Exception

	The following color adjectives are exceptions as they agree in gender and in number:

		écarlate: scarlet
		fauve: fawn
		mauve: mauve
		rose: pink
		pourpre: crimson

	Examples:

		des fleurs roses: pink flowers, the noun flowers is feminine and plural, you need to add an -s at the end of the adjective roses.
		des joues écarlates: scarlet cheeks, the noun cheeks is feminine and plural, you need to add an -s at the end of the adjective écarlates.
		des crayons mauves: mauve pencils, the noun pencils is plural, you need to add an -s at the end of the adjective mauves.

	Color adjectives derived from other languages

	The colors do not agree in gender and in number (auburn, kaki).

		la coloration auburn, there is no -e at the end of the word auburn.
		des pantalons kaki: khaki pants, the adjective kaki is invariable, there is no -s at the end of the word kaki.

	Compounds nouns: color + color

	When it comes to compound color adjectives that are composed of two colors, the color adjectives are invariable in French. They don’t agree in number and gender with the noun they describe:

		des yeux bleu-vert
		des perles gris-noir

	We only put a hyphen when it comes to two different colors.
	Compound noun: color + adjective of intensity

	The colors made up of two words are always invariable (light, pale, dark,…):

		des yeux bleu clair: light blue eyes
		des assiettes rouge foncé: dark red plates
		des pulls jaune pâle: pale yellow pulls

	Colors, meaning, and spelling

	The meaning of the sentence can modify the spelling of adjectives.

	Example:

		des drapeaux rouge et bleu: every flag is red and blue.
		des drapeaux rouges et bleus: some flags are red and other flags are blue.



Irregular verb PRENDRE 'to take' - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/vre2.html:
	Verbs like prendre are conjugated like regular -re verbs in the singular, but not in the plural. Note the difference in the stem in the plural forms. 
	
	prendre 'to take'
	je prends				nous prenons
	tu prends				vous prenez
	il/elle/on prend		ils/elles prennent
	past participle: pris
	
	Verbs conjugated like prendre include:
		apprendre;  to learn
		comprendre; to understand
		surprendre; to surprise
		
	
	Edouard et Tammy surprennent Tex			
		Eduoard and Tammy surprise Tex
		
	Tammy: Qu'est-ce que tu fais, Tex? Tu vas où? Pourquo tu prends un taxi?
		Tammy: What are you doing, Tex? Where are you going? Why are you taking a taxi?
		
	Tex: Uhh, je suis en retard. Uhh, je vais en classe. Aujourd'hui mes étudiants apprennent à chanter la Marseillaise
		Tex: Uhh, I'm late. Uhh, I'm going to class. Today my students are learning to sing the Marseillaise. 
		
		
	
Irregular verb METTRE 'to place, put' -  https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/vre3.html:
	Verbs like mettre are conjugated like regular -re verbs in the singular and in plural. 
	
	mettre 'to place, put' 
	je mets
	tu mets
	il/elle/on met
	nous mettons
	vous mettez
	ils/elles mettent
	past participle: mis
	
	
	Mettre literally means 'to place, to put'. It is also used in the following expressions:
		mettre la table (le couvert), to set the table
		mettre + article of clothing, to put on
		mettre + electrical item (radio, light), to turn on
		
		
	Other verbs like mettre include:
		admettre, to admit
		permettre, to permit
		promettre, to promise
		remettre, to turn in (a report), to postpone 
		
		
	
	Tammy: Tex, tu mets la table pour la soirée?
		Tex, are you going to set the table for the party
		
	Tex: Non, je n'ai pas envie	
		Tex: No. I don't feel like it
	
	Tammy: Ça alors. C'est toujours moi qui mets la table
		Tammy: Come on, I'm always the one who sets the table
		
	
	
	
Zoom session on May 25, 2023:
	Je vais en Jamaïque en novembre. Je porte un short cargo et un t-shirt. Je vais nager. J'aime nager
	Il fait chaud mais ne pas humide. 

	I am going to jamaica in November. I wear cargo shorts and t shirt. I will swim. 
	The weather is hot and not humid. 
	
	There is not much rain - there is not much rain
	Jamaica is in the Caribbean sea - La Jamaïque se trouve dans la mer des Caraïbes
	
	
	Robert Strachen vacation sport:
		Where are you going on holidays?
		Mon partenaire Robert vais aller en Nouvelle-Zélande en hiver
		
		What kind of clothes are you going to wear?
		Robert porter un t-shirt et un pantalon
		
		What kind of activites are you going to do?
		Robert regardera le seigneur des anneaux au cinéma
		
		Il y a de la pluie et du soleil. Il y a de la neige dans les montagnes. 
		
		
	Corrections:
		il va y avoir du soleil - for future tense 
		je me lève = je vais me lever
		
		When you give more than one element, stick to the following structure:
			il va proter un chapeau gris, une chemise rouge et des chaussures blances.
		
		Same thing last week when talking about activities:
			il y a du soleil = il va y avoir du soleil
			
			
			

Vocabulaire
	https://www.reallyfrench.com/french-countries.php:
		Names of countries in French:
			Le pays:  The country
			Les pays: The countries
			
			
		Country names: 
			L'Algérie
			L'Afrique du sud
			L'Angleterre
			L'Allemagne
			L'Arabie Saoudite
			L'Australie
			L'Autriche
			La Belgique
			Le Brésil
			La Chine
			La Corée du Sud
			Le Danemark
			L'Ecosse
			L'Egypte
			L'Espagne
			Les Etats-Unis
			Le Finlande
			La France
			La Grande Bretagne
			L'Inde
			L'Italie
			L'Iraq
			Le Japon
			Le Liban
			La Norvège
			La Nouvelle Zélande
			Le Pays de Galle
			Les Pays-Bas
			Les Philippines
			La Pologne
			La Russie
			La Slovénie
			La Suède
			La Suisse
	
			Algeria
			South Africa
			England
			Germany
			South Arabia
			Australia
			Austria
			Belgium
			Brazile
			China
			South Korea
			Denmark
			Scotland
			Egypt
			Spain
			The United States
			Finland
			France
			Great Britain
			India
			Italy
			Iraq
			Japan
			Lebanon
			Norway
			New Zealand
			Wales
			The Netherlands
			The Philippines
			Poland
			Russia
			Slovania
			Swedan
			Switzerland
			
		Continent names:
			L'Amérique
			L'Asie
			L'Afrique
			L'Europe
			L'Océanie
			
			America
			Asia
			Africa
			Europe
			Oceania
			
		Useful phrases:
			Pierre va en Allemagne 			- Pierre goes to Germany
			Elle va en Italie 				- She goes to Italy
			Jean habite au Portugal			- Jean lives in Portugal
			Annie est née en France			- Annie is born in France
			David travaille en Suisse		- David works in Switzerland
			
			

May 28, 2023: video assignment paragraph:
	En hiver, je vais en Jamaïque. En général, il y fait chaud, pas humide et il n'y a pas de neige. J'aime nager en Jamaïque avec des shorts bleus. Sinon, je porte une chemise canadienne rouge avec un short cargo vert 
	et des chaussures noires. J'aime manger le plus possible en Jamaïque. Je ne porte pas mes lunettes à l'extérieur à cause du sable. Je ne voyage pas au printemps, en été ou en automne. Je ne porte pas de chemise hawaïenne. 
	
	In the winter, I am going to Jamaica. Generally, the weather is hot, not humid with no snow. I enjoy swimming in Jamaica with blue shorts. Otherwise, I wear a red canadian shirt with green cargo shorts and black shoes. 
	I enjoy eating as much as possible in Jamaica. I do not wear my glasses when outside because of sand. I do not travel in the spring, summer, or fall. I do not wear hawaiian shirts. 
	
	En hiver, je vais en Jamaïque. En général, il y fait chaud, et il n'y a pas de neige. J'aime nager en Jamaïque avec des shorts bleus tout l'après-midi tous les jours. Sinon, je porte une chemise canadienne rouge avec 
	un short cargo vert et des chaussures noires. J'aime manger le plus possible en Jamaïque. Je ne porte pas mes lunettes à l'extérieur à cause du sable. Je ne voyage pas au printemps, en été ou en automne. 
	Je ne porte pas de chemise hawaïenne. 
	
	
Module 3 notes:
	List of pronominal verbs to memorise:
	s’habiller	to get dressed
	se brosser	to brush oneself 
	se coucher	to go to bed
	se doucher	to shower
	se laver	to wash oneself
	se lever	to get/stand up
	se maquiller	to make up
	se raser	to shave
	se réveiller	to wake up 
	se marier à (avec)	to marry
	s’amuser	to have fun (to amuse oneself)
	s’appeler	to call oneself 

	A reflexive pronoun is a type of pronoun that reflects the action of the verb back onto the subject. 
In French, reflexive pronouns are used with reflexive verbs to indicate that the subject is performing the action on itself.
	A pronominal verb is a verb that is accompanied by a reflexive pronoun. Pronominal verbs fall into three major classes based on their meaning:
reflexive, idiomatic, and reciprocol. To conjugate pronominal verbs in the present tense, we must pay attention to both the pronoun and the verb form.


	Pronominal verbs often express reflexive actions, that is, the subject performs the action on itself. If the subject performs the action on someone
else, the verb is not reflexive. Below is a list of common reflexive verbs:
	1. s'asseoir; 		to sit (down)
	2. s'appeler; 		to be called 
	3. s'arrêter; 		to stop 
	4. se brosser; 		to brush
	5. se coucher;  	to go to bed
	6. s'habiller;  	to get dressed
	7. se laver; 		to wash
	8. se lever; 		to get up
	9. se promener; 	to take a walk
	10. se réveiller; 	to wake up
	
	In the context of language or grammar, the term "reflexive meaning" refers to the idea that a verb is used to indicate that the subject is performing the 
action on itself. This indicates a reflexive relationship between the subject and the action. In French, reflexive verbs are used in such cases and require 
the use of reflexive pronouns. The reflexive pronouns indicate that the subject is both the doer and the receiver of the action. The reflexive meaning adds 
a level of self-reference or self-involvement to the action expressed by the verb.

	French must explicitly state reflexive meaning by using a reflexive pronoun. 
	E.g. Est-ce que Tex se rase? Mais non, Tex, c'est un tatou. Il n'a pas de cheveux. - Does Tex shave? Why no, Tex is an armadillo. He has no hair. 
		 Qu'est-ce qu'il fait, Tex, avec le resoir? Il rase Joe-Bob pour l'été - What's Tex doing with the razor? He's shaving Joe-Bob for the summer. 
		
	To negate pronominal verbs, place the ne before the reflexive pronoun and the pas after the verb. When used with an auxiliary verb such as aimer (to like), 
the infinitive of a pronominal verb agrees with its subject. When pronominal verbs are used with parts of the body, they take the definitive article (le, la, 
les) rather than the possessive article as in English: Tax se lave les mains. (Tex washes his hands.). 

	Joe Bob: Eduoard, est-ce que tu te rases?												Job Bob: Edouard, do you shave?
	Edouard: Non, je ne me rase pas															Edouard: No, I don't shave
	Les escargots ne se rasent pas. Pourtant, nous nous lavons le visage tous les jours		Snail's don't shave. However we do wash our faces every day
	Joe Bob: Ah, tu as de la chance. Je déteste me raser									Ah, you're lucky. I hate to shave. 
	
	
	
	
Idiomatic verbs:
	Some pronominal verbs are idiomatic and do not represent reflexive actions per se. s'amuser (to have fun) and se reposer (to rest) 
	are examples of pronominal verbs with idiomatic meanings. The following list includes common idiomatic pronominal verbs:
		s'amuser; 				to have fun
		se dépêcher;			to hurry
		s'endormir;				to fall asleep
		s'ennuyer;				to be bored
		s'entendre;				to get along
		se fâcher;				to get angry
		se marier;				to get married
		se passer;				to happen
		se reposer;				to rest
		se sentir;				to feel
		se souvenir de;			to remember
		se taire;				to be silent
		se tromper;				to make a mistake
		se trouver;				to be (situated) 
		




Reciprocol verbs:
	A third category of pronominal verbs expresses a reciprocol action between more than one person, s'aimer or se parler, for example. 
	The English equivalent often uses the phrase 'each other' to represent this reciprocol action. Here is a list of common reciprocol verbs:
		s'aimer;			to love each other
		se détester; 		to hate each other
		se disputer; 		to argue
		s'embrasser;		to kiss
		se parler;			to talk to each other
		se quitter;			to leave each other
		se regarder;		to look at each other
		se retrouver;		to meet each other
		se téléphoner;		to telephone each other
		
		
	To form the imperative of pronominal verbs, drop the subject pronoun and then attach the reflexive pronoun with a hyphen to the right side of the verb. 
	The reflexive pronoun 'te' becomes 'toi' when used in the imperative. Dépêche-toi! (Hurry up!); Souvenons-nous (Let's remember); Amusez-vous! (Have fun!).
	
	Tammy décrit ses rapports avec Tex									Tammy describes her relationship with Tex
	Tammy: Nous nous entendons très bien, sauf quand il se fâche		Tammy: Usually we get along very well except when he gets angry
	Il me dit, <<Assieds-toi et tais-toi, ma petite.>>					He tells me "Sit down and shut up, little one!" 
	Mais nous nous aimons même si nous nous disputons un peu			But we love each other even if we fight a little bit
	Nous allons nous marier un jour										We're going to get married someday 
	
"Ses" is a possessive adjective used to indicate possession. It agrees in gender and number with the noun it modifies. It is used when referring to multiple things or people belonging 
to a third-person singular or plural subject:
	Example: "Il adore ses amis." (He loves his friends.)
	
"Se" is a reflexive pronoun used in reflexive verbs and reciprocal verbs. It reflects the action back to the subject. It can also be used as a pronominal particle in some verb constructions:
	Example: "Elle se lave les mains." (She washes her hands.)
	Example: "Ils se parlent tous les jours." (They talk to each other every day.)
		

Conjugation of the verb faire - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/virr5.html:
	The verb 'faire' is irregular in the present tense. faire means 'to do, to make' 
	
	je fais
	tu fais
	il/elle/on fait
	nous faisons
	vous faites
	ils/elles font
	past participle: fait
	
	Faire is one of three verbs that does end in -ez when used with the subject 'vous'. The others are être: vous êtes; dire: vous dites. 
	The similarity is also present in the third-person plural form of aller, être, and faire:
	ils vont (they go)
	ils sont (they are)
	ils font (they do/make)
	
	Example sentences:
		Tex: Salut tout le monde. Qu'est-ce qu'on fait?			Tex: Hey everyone. What's everyone doing?
		Corey: Pas grand-chose									Corey: Not much
		Fiona: Nous ne faisons rien, absolument rien			Fiona: We're not doing anything, absolutely nothing
		
	Faire is used in many expressions, including weather, sports, and household tasks. 
	
	Tex ne fait pas de sport
	Tammy et Bette, elles font des cours ensemble
	Corey, est-ce que tu font tes devoirs
	Fiona: Je ne fais rien!
	
	

Conjugasion Aller - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/tex/gr/virr4.html:
	The verb aller is irregular in the present tense. 
		aller  'to go':
			je vais 			nous allons
			tu vas 				vous allez
			il/elle/on va 		ils/elles vont
			
			past participle allé
			
		Aller literally means 'to go', but is used figuratively in salutations to say how one is doing. 
			Corey: Salut, Joe-Bob, où vas-tu?												Corey: Hey, Joe-Bob, where are you going?
			Joe-Bob: Je vais au café														Joe-Bob: I'm going to a coffee shop
			Corey: Mais, tu as cours maintenant												Corey: But, you have class right now
			Job-Bob: Oui, mais le prof est horrible, vraiment horrible! 					Joe-Bob: Yes but, the prof is horrible, really horrible
			Corey: Attention! Il arrive!													Corey: Watch out! He's coming!
			Joe-Bob: Ah, bonjour monsieur le professeur. Comment allez-vous aujourd'hui?	Joe-Bob: Oh, hello, professor. How are you today?
	
		Aller is also used to talk about the near future, what one is 'going to do'. 
		
Partitive articles are a type of articles used in French to indicate an unspecified or unknown quantity of something. They are used when referring to a portion, part, or some amount of a mass noun or an uncountable noun. 
	The partitive articles in French are as follows:
		"Du" is used before a masculine singular noun, for example:
			Je mange du pain. (I eat some bread.)
			Il boit du café. (He drinks some coffee.)
		"De la" is used before a feminine singular noun, for example:
			Elle boit de la limonade. (She drinks some lemonade.)
			J'ai acheté de la farine. (I bought some flour.)
		"De l'" is used before a singular noun that starts with a vowel sound, for example:
			Elle a bu de l'eau. (She drank some water.)
			Il a mangé de l'orange. (He ate some orange.)
		"Des" is used before plural nouns, regardless of gender, for example:
			Nous avons des fruits. (We have some fruits.)
			Ils ont des livres. (They have some books.)
	Partitive articles are used to indicate an indefinite or non-specific quantity. They are often used with verbs like "manger" (to eat), "boire" (to drink), "acheter" (to buy), and others when referring to an unspecified 
	amount of something.
		
	
May 16, 2023 zoom session lab:
	Notre celebrité a la peau noir et bleu yeux. Il n'a pas de cheveux où Il a des cheveux trés fins où il a des cheveux trés élégant. 
	Il a une personallité arrogante. Il se voit dans comme un infleunceur populaire.  
	
	Our celebrity has black skin and blue eyes. He has no hair or he has very mince hair or he has very elegant hair. 
	He has an arrogant personality. He sees himself as a popular influence. 

	Qui choisis-tu? -> Who do you choose?

	Reflexive verbs:
		s’habiller	to get dressed
		se brosser	to brush oneself 
		se coucher	to go to bed
		se doucher	to shower
		se laver	to wash oneself
		se lever	to get/stand up
		se maquiller	to make up
		se raser	to shave
		se réveiller	to wake up 
		se marier à (avec)	to marry
		s’amuser	to have fun (to amuse oneself)
		s’appeler	to call oneself 

	
	Quelle heure est-il?:	->	Il est 7 heures (It is 7 hours). 
		What time is it?
		
	6h15:
		Il est six heures quinze / il est six heures et quart
	2h30:
		Il est deux heures trente / il est deux heures et demie
	1h45:
		Il est une heure quarante cinq / il est deuz heures moins quart				'une' because heure is feminine. 
	8h21:
		Il est huit heures vingt et une 
	Il est midi: noon
	Il est minuit: midnight
	
	am: il est 8 heures du matin 	   (of the morning)
	pm: il est 3 heures de láprés-midi (of the afternoon)
		 il est 6 heures du soir 	   (of the evening)
		 
	
	24 hour clock is only numbers 
	
	Conjugasion:
	À quelle heurce tu te léves?:
		What time do you get up? 	-> je me lève à 7 heures trente. 
		je me lève 					-> I get myself up
		tu te lèves 				-> 
		elle/il/iel se lève 		->
		nous nous levons 			->
		elles/ils se lèvent			-> 
	
	Negation:
		je ne me lève pas
		
		
	
	Branden se réveille à sept heure 
	Il est six heures cinquante-1-9
	
	
	Learning conjugasion is a matter of repetition. 
	-er regular verbs are conjugated the same way regardless of reflexivity. 
	
	
	Thursday will be discussing weekly activities. 
	
	
	


Aller CHEZ ou aller À - https://www.francaisfacile.com/exercices/exercice-francais-2/exercice-francais-48827.php:
	In French, the preposition "chez" is used to indicate someone's home or a specific place where someone resides. 
	It is used in the following contexts:

		To indicate going to someone's home:
			Je vais chez mon ami. (I am going to my friend's house.)
			Tu peux venir chez moi ce soir ? (Can you come to my place tonight?)
		
		To indicate someone's profession or workplace:
			Je travaille chez un avocat. (I work at a lawyer's office.)
			Elle est coiffeuse chez un salon de beauté. (She is a hairdresser at a beauty salon.)
		
		To indicate a specific business or establishment:
			Je vais chez le boulanger acheter du pain. (I'm going to the bakery to buy some bread.)
			On mange souvent chez ce restaurant italien. (We often eat at this Italian restaurant.)
			
			
		In general, "chez" is used to convey the idea of going to or being at someone's place, whether it's a 
		residence or a specific location associated with a person or a business.
	Format: Chez + nom d'une personne:
		Je vais chez mon copain 		-> I go to my friends house
		Je vais chez le boulanger 		-> I go to the baker's
		Je vais chez le directeur		-> I go to the director
		
	À / AU / AUX + Nom d'un lieu
	
The contraction "au" is used in French when combining the preposition "à" (to, at) with the masculine singular 
definite article "le" (the).
Au, à, la, à l', and aux are all ways of saying 'to the' or 'at the' 
Au is commonly used when referring to going to or being at a specific masculine singular place:
	Going to a masculine singular country: Je vais au Canada. (I am going to Canada.)
	Going to a masculine singular city: Je vais au restaurant. (I am going to the restaurant.)
	Going to a masculine singular institution: Je vais au musée. (I am going to the museum.)
	Being at a masculine singular place: Je suis au bureau. (I am at the office.)
In these cases, "au" replaces "à" + "le" to indicate the specific location.

	"Au" is used before masculine singular nouns: au parc (to the park), au restaurant (at the restaurant).
	"À" is used before feminine singular nouns: à la plage (to the beach), à l'école (at the school).
	"À l'" is used before singular nouns starting with a vowel sound: à l'hôpital (to the hospital), 
	 à l'université (at the university).
	"Aux" is used before plural nouns: aux magasins (to the stores), aux fêtes (at the parties).

	Here are some common situations where "au" is used:
		Expressing location or destination:
			Je vais au cinéma. (I am going to the cinema.)
			Il est au travail. (He is at work.)
			Nous allons au restaurant. (We are going to the restaurant.)
		Referring to a specific time:
			Je te verrai au dîner. (I will see you at dinner.)
			Rendez-vous au matin. (Meet you in the morning.)
			Je pars au printemps. (I am leaving in the spring.)
		Indicating possession or association:
			C'est la clé au trousseau. (It's the key to the keychain.)
			Il a pris la voiture au père. (He took the car from his father.)
			Les droits d'auteur au livre. (The copyrights to the book.)
	Note that "au" is specifically used with masculine singular nouns. If the noun is feminine singular, "à la" is used instead. For example, "à la maison" (at the house).


The ending "aux" is added in French when combining the preposition "à" (to, at) with the plural definite article "les" (the).
	Here are some common situations where "aux" is used:
		Expressing location or destination:
			Nous allons aux magasins. (We are going to the shops.)
			Ils habitent aux États-Unis. (They live in the United States.)
			Elle est aux toilettes. (She is in the restroom.)
		Referring to a specific time:
			Les cours commencent aux matins. (Classes start in the mornings.)
			Je te verrai aux vacances d'été. (I will see you during the summer holidays.)
			Il est rentré aux dernières heures de la nuit. (He came back in the early hours of the night.)
		Indicating possession or association:
			Les clés appartiennent aux voisins. (The keys belong to the neighbors.)
			Ils ont donné les cadeaux aux enfants. (They gave the gifts to the children.)
			Les droits d'auteur appartiennent aux auteurs. (The copyrights belong to the authors.)
	Note that "aux" is specifically used with plural nouns. If the noun is masculine singular, "au" is used, and if the noun is feminine singular, "à la" is used.



https://leflepourlescurieux.fr/prepositions-a-et-chez-grammaire-a1/:
	Reminders:
		à + le  -> au
		à + les -> aux
		
		À/au/aux + nom de lieu				Chez + nom de personne/prenom tonique
		Je vais à la boulangerie			Je vais chez le boulanger
		Tu vas à la poissonnerie			Tu vas chez le poissonnier
		Ils sont à la boucherie				Ils sont chez lc boucher
		Elle est à l'épicerie				Elle est chez l'épicier
		Je vais au marché					Vous allez chez le coiffeur
		Elle va aux halles					Elle est chez le médecin
		Ils vont á l'université				Je vais chez ma mére
		Nous sommes à la maison				Il est chez ses parents
		Je suis à la bibliothéque			Je vais chez moi
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
Module 2 reminders: 
	Être stands for (to be).
	"Êtes" is the second-person plural (you all) conjugation of the verb "être" in the present tense in French. 
	The verb endings for "être" in the present tense are:
		- Je suis (I am)
		- Tu es (You are singular, informal)
		- Il/Elle/On est (He/She/One is)
		- Nous sommes (We are)
		- Vous êtes (You are plural, formal or informal)
		- Ils/Elles sont (They are)
	In the past tense, the verb "être" uses the auxiliary verb "avoir" to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé with "être" as the auxiliary verb:
		- Je suis allé(e) (I went, masculine/feminine)
		- Tu es allé(e) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Il/Elle/On est allé(e) (He/She/One went, masculine/feminine)
		- Nous sommes allé(e)s (We went, masculine/feminine)
		- Vous êtes allé(e)(s) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Ils/Elles sont allé(e)s (They went, masculine/feminine)
	Note that the past participle of "être" is "été", which is used in the passé composé with "avoir". The auxiliary verb "être" 
	is used with certain verbs of motion, reflexive verbs, and intransitive verbs to form the passé composé, the plus-que-parfait, 
	and other compound tenses.
	
	
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" (to have) in the present tense and the past tense:
		Present tense:
			- J'ai (I have)
			- Tu as (You have singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a (He/She/One has)
			- Nous avons (We have)
			- Vous avez (You have plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont (They have)
		The past tense of "avoir" is used as an auxiliary verb to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
		Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé:
		Past tense:
			- J'ai eu (I had)
			- Tu as eu (You had singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a eu (He/She/One had)
			- Nous avons eu (We had)
			- Vous avez eu (You had plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont eu (They had)

			
	In French, the most common verb endings depend on the type of verb. Here are the endings for the three main verb groups:
		1. Regular -er verbs:
		   - Singular: -e, -es
		   - Plural: -e, -ons, -ez, -ent
		   The verb ending e is used as a singular ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (je/I) of regular -er verbs. 
		   The verb ending es is used as a singular ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (tu/you) of regular -er verbs. 
		   
		   The verb ending ons is used as a plural ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (nous/we) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ez is used as a plural ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (vous/you) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ent is used as a plural ending for the third-person present tense conjugation (ils/elles/they) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs. 

		Example: Parler (to speak)
		- Je parle (I speak)
		- Tu parles (You speak)
		- Il/elle/on parle (He/she/one speaks)
		- Nous parlons (We speak)
		- Vous parlez (You speak)
		- Ils/elles parlent (They speak)

		2. Regular -ir verbs:
		   - Singular: -is, -is
		   - Plural: -it, -issons, -issez, -issent

		Example: Finir (to finish)
		- Je finis (I finish)
		- Tu finis (You finish)
		- Il/elle/on finit (He/she/one finishes)
		- Nous finissons (We finish)
		- Vous finissez (You finish)
		- Ils/elles finissent (They finish)

		3. Regular -re verbs:
		   - Singular: -s, -s
		   - Plural: -t, -ons, -ez, -ent

		Example: Vendre (to sell)
		- Je vends (I sell)
		- Tu vends (You sell)
		- Il/elle/on vend (He/she/one sells)
		- Nous vendons (We sell)
		- Vous vendez (You sell)
		- Ils/elles vendent (They sell)
		
		Comment tu t'appelles? 
		Comment t'appelles-tu?
		Comment vous appelez? 
		Comment vous appelez vous?
		
		Quelle est ton adresse? ...votre adresse?
		Quel est ton numéro de téléphone?... votre numéro..?
		Quelle est ta nationalité?..votre nationalité?
		Quel âge as-tu? 
		Quel âge avez-vous?
		
		Never pronounce constants at the end of a sentence. 
		Proposition must go before different states and provinces. 
		
		Most constants at ends of word are not pronounced. We pronounce an(s)-est-e(st):
		e at the end of words is not pronounced. Telephone is pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
		
		s'appeler (to call oneself):
			ja m'appelle
			tu t'appelles
			elle/il s'appelle
			nous nouus appelons 
			vous vous appelez
			elles/ils sáppellent
			
		être (to be):
			je suis
			tu es
			elle/il est
			nous sommes
			vous êtes
			elles/ils sont
			
		to have - avoir:
			j'ai
			tu as
			elle/il a 
			nous avons
			vous avez
			elles/ils ont
			
		
		Pronounciation:
			Most consonnants at the end of words are not pronounced: ans-an(s) est-e(st)
			"e" at the end of words is not pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
		
		
		
		aller  'to go' 		
			je vais 			nous allons
			tu vas 				vous allez
			il/elle/on va 		ils/elles vont
		past participle allé
		
		
		
		The verb "avoir" (to have) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "avoir" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): J'ai (I have)

			Second person singular (you): Tu as (you have)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle a (he/she/it has)

			First person plural (we): Nous avons (we have)

			Second person plural (you): Vous avez (you have)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles ont (they have)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				J'ai une voiture. (I have a car.)
				Tu as un livre. (You have a book.)
				Il a un chien. (He has a dog.)
				Nous avons une maison. (We have a house.)
				Vous avez des amis. (You have friends.)
				Ils ont des stylos. (They have pens.)
				
				These are the present tense forms of "avoir" for the different persons in French.

		The verb "être" (to be) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "être" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): Je suis (I am)

			Second person singular (you): Tu es (you are)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle est (he/she/it is)

			First person plural (we): Nous sommes (we are)

			Second person plural (you): Vous êtes (you are)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles sont (they are)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				Je suis étudiant(e). (I am a student.)
				Tu es mon ami. (You are my friend.)
				Il est médecin. (He is a doctor.)
				Nous sommes en vacances. (We are on vacation.)
				Vous êtes très gentils. (You are very kind.)
				Ils sont français. (They are French.)
				
				
				
				
Vocabulary:
	Quelle heure est-il? -> What time is it?
	Les heures:
		Il a une heure
		Il est duex heures
		Il est trois heures
		Il est quartre heures
		Il est cinq heures
		Il est six heures
		Il est sept heures
		Il est huit heures
		Il est neuf heures
		Il est dix heures
		Il est onze heure
		Il est midi. (12 o'clock)
		
		Après-midi
		Il est treize heures
		Il est quatorze heures
		Il est seize heures
		Il est dix-sept heures
		Il est dix-huit heures
		Il est dix-neuf heures
		Il est vingt heures 
		Il est vingt-et-une heures
		Il est vingt-deux heures
		Il est vingt-trois heures
		Il est minuit
		
		
		6h10 -> Six heures dix
		6h20 -> Six heures vingt
		7h40 -> Sept heures moins vingt
		7h50 -> Sept heures moins dix
		
		trois heures moins le quart 	-> Quarter to three
		
	Seconds:
		1 second 	-> Une second
		15 second 	-> Quinze secondes
		30 second	-> Trente secondes
		45 second 	-> Quarante-cinq secondes
		
		
		
Day/month/season - http://www.audiofrench.com/vocabulary/calendrier.htm:
	Days:
		Lundi 		- Monday
		Mardi 		- Tuesday
		Mercredi 	- Wednesday
		Jeudi 		- Thursday	
		Vendredi	- Friday
		Samedi		- Saturday
		Dimanche	- Sunday
		
	Seasons:
		Spring		- Printemps
		Summer		- été
		Autumn		- Automne
		Winter		- hiver
		
	Months:
		January		- janvier
		February	- février
		March		- mars
		April		- avril
		May			- mai
		June		- juin
		July		- juillet
		August		- août
		September	- septembre
		October		- octobre
		November	- novembre
		December	- décembre
		
	Times of day:
		Dawn		- l'aube	[f]
		Dawn		- l'aurore 	[f]
		Morning		- matin		[m]
		Morning		- matineé	[f]
		Noon		- midi
		Afternoon	- après-midi[m]
		Dusk		- crépuscule[m]
		Evening		- soir		[m]
		Evening 	- soirée	[f]
		Midnight	- minuit
		


Directions in French notes Quizlet - https://quizlet.com/534460257/francais-directions-flash-cards/:
	There 				- là
	Here				- ici
	Over there			- là-bas
	Next to				- à côté de
	To the right of 	- à droite de
	To the left of 		- à gauche de
	Straight ahead of	- tout droit de
	On top of			- sur
	Under				- sous
	In front of			- en face de
	At the corner of	- au coin de
	At the front of		- au bout de
	Surrounding			- autour de
	Near to				- près de
	Far from			- loin de
	
	
Directions in French - https://www.podcastfrancaisfacile.com/vocabulaire/directions-delf-a1-fle.html:
	Tournez à gauche 					- Turn left
	Tournez à droite 					- Turn right
	Continuez tout droit				- Go straight
	Prenez la premiére à droite 		-  
	Prenez la première à gauche			- 
	Prenez la deuxième à droite			-
	Prenez la deuxième à gauche			-
	Passez devant une boulangerie		- 
	Traversez la rue					-
	L'hôpital est au coin de la rue de la Loire et de l'avenue du Temps
	L'hôpital est au bout de la rue à droite
	L'hôpital est au bout de la rue à gauche
	
	

Class zoom session as of May 18, 2023:
	Je me léve à sept heures tous les lundi à vendredi. Je fais des études d'informatique pour sept heures tous les lundi à vendredi et je code des jeux. Je lis des livres d'informatique advancée. 
	Je me coucher à minuit tous jour. Tous les samedis et dimanches je m'amuser en jouant aux jeux vidéo. 
	Je construirs des ordinateurs. J'étudie le français pour quatre heure cinq fois par semaine.  
	Barrie a Georgian College et un magnifique front de mer. Il n'y a pas aéroport.  
	J'etudie des d'informatique.
	Ma partenáire est Nicole l'aime les jeux vidéo et lire des livres. Elle les jeux vidéo apres sept heure et elle lis toute la journee. 
	J'habite en face d'un restaurant. J'habite derrière une école primaire. J'habite entre des maisons de class moyenne. Le numéro de ma maison est onze. J'habite avec mon pére et me mére. 
	
	
	I get up at seven every Monday to Friday. I study computer science for seven hours every Monday to Friday and code games. I read advanced computer books. I go to bed at midnight every day. Every Saturday and Sunday I play video games. 
	I build computers. I study French for four hours five times a week.  Après mangeons le dîner, je vais regardé le télévision.
	Barrie has Georgian College and a beautiful waterfront. There is no airport.  
	I study computer science. 
	My partner is Nicole and she loves video games and reading books. She plays video games after seven and reads all day. 
	I live in front of a restaurant. I live behind an elementary school. I live between middle class houses. My house number is eleven. I live with my father and mother. 
	
	
	Discussion post thread:
		Bonjour!

		Je me léve à sept heures tous les lundi à vendredi et à cinq heures tous les samedis et dimanches. Je fais des études d'informatique pour sept heures tous les lundi à vendredi et je code des jeux. Je lis des 
		livres informatique avancée. Je me couche à minuit tous jour. Tous les samedis et dimanches je m'amuser en jouant aux jeux vidéo. Je construirs des ordinateurs. J'étudie le français pour quatre heure cinq 
		fois par semaine. Le week-end, j'aime faire les randonnées et être en plein air. Je ne vais pas au lac pendant l'hiver. Je vais au lac pendant l'été. 

		J'ai finis, au revoir
		
	corrections:

		du lundi au vendredi : from Monday to Friday

		informatique avancée: vocabulary

		je me couche : conjugation

		tous les jours: vocab

		je m'amuse: conjugation

		je construis: conjugation

		4 heures: plural
		
		

Module 1 notes:
	In French a simple sentence will always be composed like the following:
	Writing French accents with an international keyboard:
		To type accent grave á, é, etc. type the ` character then the vowel
		To type accent aigu é type the character ' then e
		To type Cédille ç type the character ' then c
		To type Circonflexe ê type the character ^ then e
		To type Tréma ö type the character " then o
		To type French quotation marks use the following: ctrl + alt + [ = « and ctrl + alt + ] = »
	
		
	Subject + Conjugated verb + a complement
	
	Conjugated verbs are verbs which have been changed to communicate one or more of the following: person, number, gender, tense, aspect, mood, or voice. 
	A verb is a word that describes what the subject of a sentence is doing. Verbs can indicate actions, occurences, and states of being. 
	
	The predicate of a sentence is one of the two main sentence components along with the subject. The predicate provides information about the subject, describing what the subject is doing or what is being said about it. 
	
	
	E.g.:
		Jeffrey BUILDS a house
		Anita IS THINKING about horses
		True love EXISTS
	
	The complement is a description of something (adjectives, nouns, etc.). 
	Conjugate is what you do to a word to make it agree with other words in a sentence. 
	Conjugation in French refers to the process of altering the form of a verb to indicate various grammatical aspects such as tense, mood, voice, person, and number.
	
	Je suis professeur			| I am a teacher			'Je' is the subject; 'suis' is the verb conjugated depending on 'Je' 
	Elle a 48 ans
	Marc adore le chocolat		| Marc loves the cholocate  'Marc' name; therefore, 'adore' is conjugated depending on Marc. 

	
	
	A pronoun replaces a noun in order to avoid repetition. Subject pronouns are subjects of verbs. In French, a subject pronoun is immediately or almost immediately followed by its verb. The use of subject pronouns is mandatory
	in French; always use a subject pronoun to construct sentences in the absence of a noun subject. Here are the French subject pronouns:
	E.g.
	
	je / j' = I
	Tu 		= You (Informal)
	Elle 	= She
	Il		= He
	On		= One/we (Colloquial)
	Nous	= We
	Vous	= You (Formal or you as a group)
	Elles 	= They (Plural feminine)
	Ils		= They (Plural masculine)
	
	
	Conjugaison
	
		Verbes pronominaux / pronominal verbs or reflexive verbs
		The pronominal verbs are structured with a reflexible pronoun << se >> = se lever. This pronoun will always agree with the subject. For example, je me lève (I get up myself).
		
	
		In French when you introduce yourself, you would say 'Je m'appelle Jacob' -> I call myself Jacob
		Tu t'appelles -> "What do you call yourself?". t'appelles is a conjugated form of the reflexible verb "s'appeler" which means 'to call oneself' or 'to be called' in English. 
		
		In French, verbs change their forms to match different subjects, tenses, and moods. These modified forms are called conjugated forms. Conjugation is the process of altering the verb to agree with the subject 
		and express various grammatical aspects. Verbs can be conjugated in different tenses and moods. Each tense and mood has its own set of conjugated forms. 
		
		For example, the verb 'parler' (to speak) in the present tenths can be conjugated as follows:
			Je parle  			(I speak)
			Tu parles 			(You speak)
			Il/Elle parle		(He/She speak)
			Nous parlons		(We speak)
			Vous parlez			(You speak)
			Ils/Elles parlent 	(They speak)
		
		First person  - I
		Second person - You
		Third person  - He
			

		The endings -e, -z, -t, -s, and -ent are different forms of verb endings in French, and they indicate conjugation patterns based on the subject and tense. Here's a breakdown of their usage:

		-e: This ending is typically found in the first-person singular form (je) of verbs in various tenses. For example:
			Je parle (I speak)
			Je mange (I eat)
			Je chante (I sing)
			
		-z: This ending is present in the second-person plural form (vous) of verbs in different tenses. For example:
			Vous parlez (You [plural] speak)
			Vous mangez (You [plural] eat)
			Vous chantez (You [plural] sing)
			
		-t: This ending appears in the second-person singular form (tu) of verbs in certain tenses. For example:
			Tu parles (You [singular] speak)
			Tu manges (You [singular] eat)
			Tu chantes (You [singular] sing)
			
		-s: This ending is seen in the third-person singular form (il/elle/on) of verbs in the present tense for regular -er verbs. For example:
			Il parle (He speaks)
			Elle mange (She eats)
			On chante (One/We sing)
			
		-ent: This ending is used in the third-person plural form (ils/elles) of verbs in different tenses. For example:
			Ils parlent (They speak)
			Elles mangent (They eat)
			Ils chantent (They sing)		
		

Note that in compound tenses, "avoir" is used with most verbs to form the passé composé, while a few verbs (such as "aller," "venir," and "partir") use "être" as the auxiliary verb.

	Singular verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Je (I): -e
				Tu (You): -es
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -e
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Je (I): -is
				Tu (You): -is
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -it
			For regular -re verbs:
				Je (I): -s
				Tu (You): -s
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -t
				Plural verb endings:
		Plural verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Nous (We): -issons
				Vous (You): -issez
				Ils/elles (They): -issent
			For regular -re verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
				
	Être stands for (to be).
	"Êtes" is the second-person plural (you all) conjugation of the verb "être" in the present tense in French. 
	The verb endings for "être" in the present tense are:
		- Je suis (I am)
		- Tu es (You are singular, informal)
		- Il/Elle/On est (He/She/One is)
		- Nous sommes (We are)
		- Vous êtes (You are plural, formal or informal)
		- Ils/Elles sont (They are)
	In the past tense, the verb "être" uses the auxiliary verb "avoir" to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé with "être" as the auxiliary verb:
	avoir -> 'to have' 
		- Je suis allé(e) (I went, masculine/feminine)
		- Tu es allé(e) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Il/Elle/On est allé(e) (He/She/One went, masculine/feminine)
		- Nous sommes allé(e)s (We went, masculine/feminine)
		- Vous êtes allé(e)(s) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Ils/Elles sont allé(e)s (They went, masculine/feminine)
	Note that the past participle of "être" is "été", which is used in the passé composé with "avoir". The auxiliary verb "être" 
	is used with certain verbs of motion, reflexive verbs, and intransitive verbs to form the passé composé, the plus-que-parfait, 
	and other compound tenses.
	
	aller -> 'to go' 
	
	Singular 					Plural
	Je vais I go 				Nous allons We go
	Tu vas 	You go 				Vous allez 	You go
	Il va 	He goes 			Ils vont 	They go
	Elle va She goes 			Elles vont 	They go
	On va 	We go/one goes 	
	
	
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" (to have) in the present tense and the past tense:
		Present tense:
			- J'ai (I have)
			- Tu as (You have singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a (He/She/One has)
			- Nous avons (We have)
			- Vous avez (You have plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont (They have)
		The past tense of "avoir" is used as an auxiliary verb to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
		Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé:
		Past tense:
			- J'ai eu (I had)
			- Tu as eu (You had singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a eu (He/She/One had)
			- Nous avons eu (We had)
			- Vous avez eu (You had plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont eu (They had)

			
	In French, the most common verb endings depend on the type of verb. Here are the endings for the three main verb groups:
		1. Regular -er verbs:
		   - Singular: -e, -es
		   - Plural: -e, -ons, -ez, -ent
		   The verb ending e is used as a singular ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (je/I) of regular -er verbs. 
		   The verb ending es is used as a singular ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (tu/you) of regular -er verbs. 
		   
		   The verb ending ons is used as a plural ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (nous/we) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ez is used as a plural ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (vous/you) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ent is used as a plural ending for the third-person present tense conjugation (ils/elles/they) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs. 

		Example: Parler (to speak)
		- Je parle (I speak)
		- Tu parles (You speak)
		- Il/elle/on parle (He/she/one speaks)
		- Nous parlons (We speak)
		- Vous parlez (You speak)
		- Ils/elles parlent (They speak)

		2. Regular -ir verbs:
		   - Singular: -is, -is
		   - Plural: -it, -issons, -issez, -issent

		Example: Finir (to finish)
		- Je finis (I finish)
		- Tu finis (You finish)
		- Il/elle/on finit (He/she/one finishes)
		- Nous finissons (We finish)
		- Vous finissez (You finish)
		- Ils/elles finissent (They finish)

		3. Regular -re verbs:
		   - Singular: -s, -s
		   - Plural: -t, -ons, -ez, -ent

		Example: Vendre (to sell)
		- Je vends (I sell)
		- Tu vends (You sell)
		- Il/elle/on vend (He/she/one sells)
		- Nous vendons (We sell)
		- Vous vendez (You sell)
		- Ils/elles vendent (They sell)
		
		The verb "avoir" (to have) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "avoir" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): J'ai (I have)

			Second person singular (you): Tu as (you have)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle a (he/she/it has)

			First person plural (we): Nous avons (we have)

			Second person plural (you): Vous avez (you have)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles ont (they have)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				J'ai une voiture. (I have a car.)
				Tu as un livre. (You have a book.)
				Il a un chien. (He has a dog.)
				Nous avons une maison. (We have a house.)
				Vous avez des amis. (You have friends.)
				Ils ont des stylos. (They have pens.)
				
				These are the present tense forms of "avoir" for the different persons in French.

		The verb "être" (to be) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "être" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): Je suis (I am)

			Second person singular (you): Tu es (you are)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle est (he/she/it is)

			First person plural (we): Nous sommes (we are)

			Second person plural (you): Vous êtes (you are)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles sont (they are)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				Je suis étudiant(e). (I am a student.)
				Tu es mon ami. (You are my friend.)
				Il est médecin. (He is a doctor.)
				Nous sommes en vacances. (We are on vacation.)
				Vous êtes très gentils. (You are very kind.)
				Ils sont français. (They are French.)

				These are the present tense forms of "être" for the different persons in French.

	French alphabet:		A E I O U
		A - 'ahh'
		B - 'bay'
		C - 'sey'
		D - 'dey'
		E - 'uehh'
		F - 'eff'
		G - 'ghay'
		H - 'aesh'
		I - 'ee'
		J - 'ghee'
		K - 'kah'
		L - 'ell'
		M - 'emm'
		N - 'enn'
		O - 'oh'
		P - 'peh'
		Q - 'qkoo'
		R - 'aairh'
		S - 'ess'
		T - 'teh'
		U - 'ooeeww'
		V - 'veh'
		W - 'doo-blah-veh'
		X - 'eeks'
		Y - 'eegrek'
		Z - 'zed'
		
		A is prounounced more like 'AY'
		E is prounounced more like 'Ah' 
		Ghee is J, G is Jhay.
		O is pronounced more like 'ooh', E is more like 'oe'. 
			Bonjour, Je suis trés bien, merci vous de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. 
		Anglais est ma angue maternalle et je parle limité français. Je suis vingt-et-un ans et js suis canadienne. 
		Je habite à Barrie et je aime chats. Mon numéro de téléphone est one duex trois - quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf. 
			Bonjour, je m'appelle Jacob, merci vous de demander. Je suis Canadienne est je vingt-et-un ans. Mon adresse est quatorze 
		exemple de rue. Mon numéro de téléphone est un-deux-trois quatre-cinq-siz sept-huit-neuf
			Bonjour, je m'appelle jacob. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille Graham. Mon prénom est m'épelle ghee-ah-sey-oh-
			bay et mon nom de famille est m'épelle jhay-eearh
		et mon nom de famille est m'épelle G R A H A M. Je suis canadienne est je suis vingt-une. Au reviour and bonne journée!
		
	French numbers 1 to 100:
		0 - Zéro	10 - Dix				10 - Dix
		1 - Un		11 - Onze				20 - Vingt
		2 - Deux	12 - Deuze				30 - Trente
		3 - Trois	13 - Treize				40 - Quarante
		4 - Quatre	14 - Quatorze			50 - Cinquante
		5 - Cinq	15 - Quinze				60 - Soixante
		6 - Siz		16 - Seize				70 - Soixante-dix
		7 - Sept	17 - Dix-sept			80 - Quatre-vingt
		8 - Huit	18 - Dix-huit			90 - Quatre-vingt-dix
		9 - Neuf	19 - Dix-neuf			100 - Cent
					20 - Vingt
		
	An adjactive is a word that describes a noun or a pronoun. In French, an adjective is usually placed after the noun it modifies and must agree in gender and number with the noun. 
	In French, adjectives are not written with a capital letter. 
	To get the feminine version of the adjective, you add an -e to the masculine form: français / française.
	If the name of the adjective of nationality ends with -e, the word stays the same: Paul est suisse / Marie est suisse.
	For the plural form, you add a -s to the singular form: française / françaises.
	If the name of the adjective of nationality ends with -s at the singular form, the word stays the same: Paul est français / Paul et Marc sont français.
	
	When the 
	
	
GRAMMER - Grammaire
	Structure de la phrase simple - Simple sentence structure:
		Sentence structure: Bart is playing football / Bart joue au football
		
		1. Who/what performs the action
		2. The action itself
		3. What is being performed / acted upon
		
		Bart's head is the person, his leg kicking the ball is the action, and the football / soccerball is the thing being acted upon.
		
		There are three main jobs that a word/group of words can have in a sentence:
			Le verbe 				- The doing or action word
			Le sujet 				- What/who is performing the action
			Le complément d'objet	- What/who the action is acted upon 
			
			Bart (le sujet) joue (le verbe) au football (Le complément d'objet). 
			
	When analyzing a sentence, you need to first find the verb (action). Once you have the action, you can find the subject. 
	
	Lisa is reading a book
	1) Find the verb:
		What is happening
		What is the action
		=> is reading
		
	2) Find the subject:
		Who/What + verb
		Who / what is reading?
		=> Lisa
		
	3) Find the object - This is much easier if you already know the verb and subject:
		Subject + verb + what? - Lisa is reading what?
		Sujet + verbe + quoi?
	
	Common noun endings for masculine and feminine:
		Masculine: -age, -ege, -isme, -acle, -eau, -ier, -oir
		Feminine: -tion, -sion, -ude, -ance, -ence, -ée, -ie
		
		
	Practice sentence structure:
		Quel est le sujet dans la phrase suivante? 
		What is the subject in the following sentence? 
	
	
	
How can you tell if a noun is feminine or masculine? - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8lzZmJm2Qk
	Every noun has a gender, regardless of singular or plural nouns. 
	
	The easiest way to tell the gender of the noun is by looking at the last letter. If the noun ends with an e, the noun is feminine. Nouns which end with any other letter are generally masculine. 
	We use (le / un) for masculine nouns and (la / une) for feminine nouns. 
	
	Some masculine endings: age, ment, eau, oir.
	Some feminine endings:  tion, sion, té, euse.
	Feminine endings: -e, -ée, -tion, -sion, -ance, -ence, -ette
	Masculine endings: -age, -ege, -oir, -isme, -age, -on, -er
	
	Sometimes the gender of a noun influences the sentence.
	


Why knowing the gender of a French word is important - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lrroi3X0Y_g:
	First reason:
		le (the) and un (a) are used in front of a masculine noun. la (the) and une (a) are used in front of a feminine noun. les (the) and des (some) used in front of a plural noun regardless of gender. 
		
		All adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun they qualify. Le stylo vert est petit (the green pen is small).
		If doing the above sentence in feminine form, you would write La fleur verte est petite (the green flower is small). 
		In plural form:
			Les stylos verts sont petits (The green pens are small)
			Les fleurs vertes sont petites (The green flowers are small)
			
		First reason because the gender of a French word determines the order of words in the sentence
		
	Second reason:
		All possessive pronouns and adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun used. 
		Mon stylo est vert (My pen is green). We use 'Mon' because stylo is masculine. The word is 'vert' instead of 'verte' because the word is masculine instead of feminine. 
		By extension, we say 'Le mien est vert' (Mine is green) because stylo is masculine.
		Ma fleur est verte (My flower is green). 
		La mienne est verte (Mine is green). 
		
	Third reason:
		All demonstrative pronouns and adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun used.
		
		

French grammar in 35 minutes - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9q7nx6kzvD0:
	Recap of the grammar course:
		Le phrase simple - Subject + conjugated verb + article + noun
		E.g. Je mange une pomme: I am eating an apple. Adding an e character onto un because je is used. Une is the verb in the sentence / noun.
		Je mange un abricot - Masculine singular
		Je mange une pomme - I am eating an apple
		Je mange des carises - I am eating some cherries
		
		
	Gender of nouns:
		90% of nouns ending with E are feminine. Always study the gender of nouns at the same time as you study vocabulary. 
		ChatGPT

		Determining the gender of a noun in French can be challenging, as there are few rules that universally apply. However, here are some tips that can help in identifying or making educated guesses about the gender of a noun:

			Pay attention to the ending: While not foolproof, certain noun endings are more commonly associated with a specific gender. For example:

			Masculine endings: -age, -ege, -oir, -isme, -age, -on, -er
			Feminine endings: -e, -ée, -ion, -sion, -ance, -ence, -ette

		Look for patterns: Certain categories of words tend to have a specific gender. For instance:

			Most nouns referring to males or males of a species are masculine.
			Nouns denoting female beings or females of a species are typically feminine.
			Nouns related to professions or occupations often have a specific gender associated with them.

		Learn gender with the noun: When learning new vocabulary, make a conscious effort to learn the noun together with its corresponding gender. For example, instead of just learning "table," learn "une table" (feminine) or 
		"un livre" (masculine).

		Pay attention to article and adjective agreement: The choice of definite (le, la) and indefinite (un, une) articles, as well as the agreement of adjectives, can give clues about the gender of a noun.

		Be cautious of exceptions: It's important to remember that there are numerous exceptions to gender patterns in French, and many nouns simply need to be learned individually.

		Developing a good understanding of noun gender in French takes time and practice. Engaging with the language through reading, listening, and speaking will gradually improve your ability to determine the gender of nouns. 
		Additionally, consulting a dictionary or language resource can provide guidance on specific nouns.
		
		
	Le pluriel des noms:
		When a noun ends with E, OU, AIL, R, T, L, ON, AN, IN, UM, add an s.  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Une ville -> Des Villes (Cities)
		When a noun ends with EAU, AU, EU add an x. 						  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un oiseau -> Des oiseaux (Birds)
		When a noun ends with AL, add an AUX								  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un cheval (horse) -> Des chevaux (Horses)						
		When a noun ends with S, X, or Z, add nothing						  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un bras (an arm) -> Des bras (arms)		
		
	Subject pronouns (Les pronoms sujets):
		Singular
			Je / J' - I
			Tu		- You
			Il		- He/It
			Elle	- She/It
			On		- We
		Pluriel
			Nous	- We
			Vous	- You
			Ils		- They
			Elles	- They
		
	Je veux de fromage - Masculine singular (I want some cheese)
	Je veux de la confiture - Feminine singular (I want some jam)
	Je veux de l'eau - Singular noun starting with silent h (I want some water)
	Je veux des croissants - Plural noun regardless of gender (I want some croissants) 
	
	C'est is a contraction of Ce est
	C'est / Ce sont - Il est - For person, things, nationalities, and jobs
	 C'est une femme (This is a woman)
	 C'est un homme  (This is a man)
	 C'est beau		 (It's beautiful)
	 C'est bien		 (It's good)
	 
	Il est is commonly used for third-person singular masculine form.
	Il est beau (It's beautiful / He is beautiful)
	Il est deux heures (It's two o'clock)
	Il est suisse (He is swiss)
	Il est professeur (He is a teacher)
	
	
	Demonstrating adjectives:
		Ce - Masculine singular; Cette - Feminine singular; Cet for when adjective starts with silent h; Ces for plural adjectives
	
	French numbers:
		0 - Zéro	10 - Dix				10 - Dix
		1 - Un		11 - Onze				20 - Vingt
		2 - Deux	12 - Deuze				30 - Trente
		3 - Trois	13 - Treize				40 - Quarante
		4 - Quatre	14 - Quatroze			50 - Cinquante
		5 - Cinq	15 - Quinze				60 - Soixante
		6 - Siz		16 - Seize				70 - Soixante-dix
		7 - Sept	17 - Dix-sept			80 - Quatre-vingt
		8 - Huit	18 - Dix-huit			90 - Quatre-vingt-dix
		9 - Neuf	19 - Dix-neuf			100 - Cent
					20 - Vingt
					
	
	Negation in French - Generally used with 'Ne pas'; used to indicate the abscence or negation of an action, state, or condition.
		Ne ... pas - Not
		Ne ... plus - No longer / Not anymore
		Ne ... jamais - Never
		Ne ... que - Only
		Ne ... rien - Nothing
		Ne ... pas encore - Not yet
		Ne ... personne - Nobody / No one
		Ne ... ni ... ni - Neither ... nor
		
		Conjugaison au présent: AVOIR/ÊTRE/S'APPELER/verbes réguliers -ER / Present conjugation : HAVE/BE/TO CALL ONESELF / regular verbs -ER
		
		

Class lab session on May 05, 2022 at 6:00 pm:
	French is a very gendered language
	Pronoms:
	Je - I
	Tu - You
	Elle - She
	Il - He
	Iel - They
	Nous - We
	Vous - You (Formal in a group)
	Elles-they (f)
	Ils-they (m)
	
	
	Comment tu t'appelles? 
	Comment t'appelles-tu?
	Comment vous appelez? 
	Comment vous appelez vous?
	
	Quelle est ton adresse? ...votre adresse?
	Quel est ton numéro de téléphone?... votre numéro..?
	Quelle est ta nationalité?..votre nationalité?
	Quel âge as-tu? 
	Quel âge avez-vous?
	
	Never pronounce constants at the end of a sentence. 
	Proposition must go before different states and provinces. 
	
	Most constants at ends of word are not pronounced. We pronounce an(s)-est-e(st):
	e at the end of words is not pronounced. Telephone is pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
	
	s'appeler (to call oneself):
		ja m'appelle
		tu t'appelles
		elle/il s'appelle
		nous nouus appelons 
		vous vous appelez
		elles/ils sáppellent
		
	être (to be):
		je suis
		tu es
		elle/il est
		nous sommes
		vous êtes
		elles/ils sont
		
	to have - avoir:
		j'ai
		tu as
		elle/il a 
		nous avons
		vous avez
		elles/ils ont
		
	
	Pronounciation:
		Most consonnants at the end of words are not pronounced: ans-an(s) est-e(st)
		"e" at the end of words is not pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
		
		
Class discussion thread for presenting yourself:
	Bonjour, Je suis trés bien, merci vous de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. Anglais est ma angue maternalle et je parle limité français. 
	Je suis vingt-et-un ans et js suis canadienne. Je habite à Barrie et je aime chats. Mon numéro de téléphone est one duex trois - quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf. 
	
	Corrected paragraph: 
		Bonjour, je vais très bien, merci de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. Ma langue maternelle est l'anglais et je parle un peu français. 
		J'ai vingt-et-un ans et je suis canadien. J'habite à Barrie et j'aime les chats. Mon numéro de téléphone est un deux trois - quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf
		
	Mistakes:
		je vais très bien: In French, you would say " I am going well"

		Be careful with the structure of your sentences:

		"ma langue maternelle est l'anglais

		j'ai 21 ans : in French you say "I have 21 years"

		je suis canadien (masculin)

		j'habite-j'aime : contraction because of the 2 vowels

		J'aime les chats: there is an article before the noun

		un-deux : be careful with the spelling of your numbers
		
		
		
Module 2 notes:
	Definite articles in French:
	Four forms:
		Le
		La
		L'
		Les
		
	Le - Masculine words starting with a consonnant;
		Le stylo ; masculine singular and starts with a consonant. 
		Le bus ; Following the same rule as above
		
	La - Feminine words starting with a consonnant;
		La voiture ; feminine singular representing 'the car'
		La crème ; feminine singular representing 'the cream'
		La télé ; feminine singular representing 'the tv' 
		
	L' - Masculine or feminine words starting with a vowel - singular;
		L' arbre ; 'the tree'   masculine
		L' oiseau ; 'the bird'  masculine
		L' eau ; 'the water'    feminine
	
	Les - Plural words regardless of masculine or feminine;
		Les bus ; 'the bus'
		Les oiseaux ; 'x to indicate the word is plural' 
		Les voitures ; 
		
	Almost all of the time, feminine words will have an ending of the letter 'e'. 
	Differences:
		President John Smith - Le président John Smith
		France				 - La France
		French people		 - Les Français
		
	
	Contractions:
		To the...
			à le  - spelled as au 
			à la  - no contraction so spelled as is
			à les - aux   
			
		Of the...
			de le  - du 
			de la  - no contraction to spelled as-is
			de les - des
			
	Typically masculine noun endings (+90%):
		-an, -and, -ant, -ent, -in, -int, -om, -ond, -ont, -on (but not after s/c¸)
		-eau, -au, -aud, -aut, -o, -os, -ot
		-ai, -ais, -ait, -es, -et
		-ou, -out, -out, -oux
		-i, -il, -it, -is, -y
		-at, -as, -ois, -oit
		• -u, -us, -ut, -eu
		-er, -é after C (C=t)
		-age, -ege, – ème, -ome, -aume, -isme
		-as, -is, -os, -us, -ex
		-it, -est
		-al, -el, -il, -ol, -eul, -all
		-if, -ef
		 -ac, -ic, -oc, -uc
		-am, -um, -en
		-air, -er, -erf, -ert, -ar, -arc, -ars, -art, -our, -ours, -or, -ord, -ors, -ort, -ir, -oir, -eur
		(if animate)
		-ail, -eil, -euil, -ueil
		-ing

	Typically feminine noun endings (+90%)
		 -aie, -oue, -eue, -ion, -te, – ée, -ie, -ue
		-asse, -ace, -esse, -ece, -aisse, -isse/-ice, -ousse, -ance, -anse, -ence, -once
		 -enne, -onne, -une, -ine, -aine, -eine, -erne
		-ande, -ende, -onde, -ade, -ude, -arde, -orde
		-euse, -ouse, -ase, -aise, -ese, -oise, -ise, -yse, -ose, -use
		 -ache, -iche, -eche, -oche, -uche, -ouche, -anche
		-ave, -eve, -ive
		 -iere, -ure, -eure
		-ette, -ete, – ête, -atte, -otte, -oute, -orte, -ante, -ente, -inte, -onte
		-alle, -elle, -ille, -olle
		-aille, -eille, -ouille
		-appe, -ampe, -ombe
		-igue



	In French, a definite article is a word that precedes a noun and specifies the identity of the noun. The definite articles in French are "le" (masculine singular), "la" (feminine singular), "l'" 
	(used instead of "le" or "la" before a vowel or silent "h"), and "les" (plural, regardless of gender).
			
			
	
	A verb is reflexive when the subject of the verb is performing the action on themselves. 
			
			
	Most feminine noun endings:
		The majority of words that end in -e or -ion
		Endings with the letter r
		ette, euse, ienne, (i)ère, ice, elle, esse, ance, ence, ée, ure, ise, ade, ie, t(i)é, ine, aille, onne, tion, ille, aison, sion, alle, ale, ace, ude
	
	Most masculine verb endings:
		The majority of words that end in -age, -ege, -é, -isme
		age, isme, ien, ier, eau, tre, ème, et, cle, ège, ing, cre, ment, oir, ou, eu, eil, as, lon, ot, al, aire
		
	If a noun/verb in singular form is feminine or masculine, their corresponding plural form will also be masculine or feminine. 
Forms:
	In French, few nouns can stand alone. Most need to be introduced or 'determined' by an article. As in English, an article is characterized as either definite ('the') or indefinite ('a', 'an'). 
	In addition, French articles are also masculine or feminine, singular or plural, according to the gender and number of the noun they determine. Here are the definite articles in French:
		Masculine singular: le (l') 	  	Tex le tatou
		Joe-Bob l'écureuil 	  	Tex the armadillo
		Joe-Bob the squirrel
		Feminine singular: la (l') 	  	Bette la chatte
		l'Université du Texas 	  	Bette the cat (female)
		The University of Texas
		Masculine and feminine plural: les 	  	les tatous
		les écureuils
		les chats
		les universités 	  	the armadillos
		the squirrels
		the cats
		the universities
		
		
élision and liaison:
	In the examples above, note that le and la both become l' when they precede a noun beginning with a vowel or a silent h: l'escargot, l'université. This is called elision.

	Unlike le and la, les does not have a contracted, reduced form. When les is followed by a word starting with a vowel, the normally silent final s of les is pronounced, making a /z/ sound. 
	This additional sound linking two words is called liaison. Listen to the following examples:	
		Compulsory liaison with a vowel or silent h 	No liaison with a consonant
		les insectes
		les animaux
		les hommes 	les tatous
		les fourmis
		
	Note that elision and liaison occur with most words starting with h: l'homme, les hommes, l'hiver, les hivers. Exceptions to this rule are words beginning with an aspirate 'h'. 
	
	
to identify a specific noun:
	The definite article is used to identify a specific noun or to refer to a noun that has already been specified.
		Corey: Tu connais la tour de l'Université du Texas? 	Corey: Do you know the UT Tower?
		Tex: Bien sûr, c'est le symbole de l'Université! 	  	Tex: Of course, it is the symbol of the University!
		Corey: Et la Sixième rue? 	  							Corey: What about Sixth street?
		Tex: Eh bien, c'est les Champs-Elysées d'Austin! 	  	Tex: Well, it's the Champs-Elysees of Austin.

to express general truths or concepts:
	French uses the definite article to express general truths or concepts. English, in contrast, uses no article at all. Compare the following sentences:
		Tex: L'argent ne rend pas l'homme heureux! 	  						Tex: Money does not make man happy!
		Tammy: Tu as raison. L'amour et la santé sont plus importants! 	  	Tammy: You are right. Love and health are more important!
		Tex: Bien sûr, pour les insectes et les animaux, l'argent n'existe pas! Mais l'amour est aussi important pour nous que pour les humains. Ah oui ... l'amour l'amour, toujours l'amour! 	  	
		Tex: Of course, for insects and animals, money does not exist! But love is as important for us as it is for humans. Ah, yes, love, love, love, always love!
		

to express likes and dislikes:
	The French also use the definite article with verbs of preference, such as aimer, préférer, détester. Once again, English omits the article in such general statements. For example:
		Tex adore les croissants. 	  	Tex loves croissants.
		Joe-Bob préfère les doughnuts. 	  	Joe-Bob prefers doughnuts.
		Tammy n'aime pas le café. 	  	Tammy does not like coffee.
		Edouard apprécie la bonne cuisine française. 	  	Edouard appreciates good French cuisine.
		tammy va en cours


to indicate habitual recurrence
	The definite article is used in French with moments of the day, days of the week, and seasons to indicate habitual recurrence. For example: 	
		Le matin, Tammy va en cours. 	  	Every morning, Tammy goes to class.
		L'après-midi, elle va à la bibliothèque. 	  	Every afternoon, she goes to the library.
		Le lundi, Tex fait son jogging. 	  	On Mondays, Tex goes for a jog.
		L'été, il se baigne avec Tammy à Barton Springs. L'hiver, il skie à Purgatory. 	  	Every summer, he bathes with Tammy at Barton Springs. Every winter, he skis in Purgatory.


in a series:
	The article is usually repeated in a series, in contrast to English. For example: 	
		Tammy: Tex, aide-moi à mettre la table! Apporte les assiettes, les couteaux, les verres, les serviettes et le vin. 	  	Tex, help me set the table! Bring the plates, knives, glasses, napkins, and wine.


no article:
	Cities usually do not require an article in French. FFor example: 	
	Tex habite à Austin. 	  	Tex lives in Austin,
	mais il préfère Paris. 	  	but he prefers Paris.


Continents, countries, states, regions, and oceans usually require an article (l'Afrique, la France, le Texas, la Bourgogne, l'Atlantique etc.), but there are a few exceptions, usually islands: Haïti, Israël, Madagascar. 
See prepositions with place names for more information.

Months never require an article: janvier, février, mars, etc.:
	Cependant Tex adore mars à Austin. 	  	Nevertheless Tex adores March in Austin.


Days of the week do not require an article in instances where they do not indicate habitual recurrence. For example: 	
	Lundi, il a rendez-vous avec Tammy. 	  	Monday he has a date with Tammy.


Listen to the dialogue:
	Tammy: J'aime beaucoup le français. C'est la langue de Molière et de Hugo, et surtout c'est la langue maternelle de Tex! 	  	Tammy: I like French a lot. It is the language of Molière and of Hugo, and above 
all it is the mother tongue of Tex!

	Bette: Alors comme ça Tammy, tu aimes bien les Français? 	  	Bette: So Tammy, you really like French men?
	Tammy: Oh oui! Surtout les Français qui portent le béret! 	  	Tammy: I sure do! Especially French men who wear a beret!
	
	
Partitive articles are a type of articles used in French to indicate an unspecified or unknown quantity of something. They are used when referring to a portion, part, or some amount of a mass noun or an uncountable noun. 
	The partitive articles in French are as follows:
		"Du" is used before a masculine singular noun, for example:
			Je mange du pain. (I eat some bread.)
			Il boit du café. (He drinks some coffee.)
		"De la" is used before a feminine singular noun, for example:
			Elle boit de la limonade. (She drinks some lemonade.)
			J'ai acheté de la farine. (I bought some flour.)
		"De l'" is used before a singular noun that starts with a vowel sound, for example:
			Elle a bu de l'eau. (She drank some water.)
			Il a mangé de l'orange. (He ate some orange.)
		"Des" is used before plural nouns, regardless of gender, for example:
			Nous avons des fruits. (We have some fruits.)
			Ils ont des livres. (They have some books.)
	Partitive articles are used to indicate an indefinite or non-specific quantity. They are often used with verbs like "manger" (to eat), "boire" (to drink), "acheter" (to buy), and others when referring to an unspecified 
	amount of something.


The contraction "au" is used in French when combining the preposition "à" (to, at) with the masculine singular 
definite article "le" (the).
Au, à, la, à l', and aux are all ways of saying 'to the' or 'at the' 
Au is commonly used when referring to going to or being at a specific masculine singular place:
	Going to a masculine singular country: Je vais au Canada. (I am going to Canada.)
	Going to a masculine singular city: Je vais au restaurant. (I am going to the restaurant.)
	Going to a masculine singular institution: Je vais au musée. (I am going to the museum.)
	Being at a masculine singular place: Je suis au bureau. (I am at the office.)
In these cases, "au" replaces "à" + "le" to indicate the specific location.

	"Au" is used before masculine singular nouns: au parc (to the park), au restaurant (at the restaurant).
	"À" is used before feminine singular nouns: à la plage (to the beach), à l'école (at the school).
	"À l'" is used before singular nouns starting with a vowel sound: à l'hôpital (to the hospital), 
	 à l'université (at the university).
	"Aux" is used before plural nouns: aux magasins (to the stores), aux fêtes (at the parties).

	Here are some common situations where "au" is used:
		Expressing location or destination:
			Je vais au cinéma. (I am going to the cinema.)
			Il est au travail. (He is at work.)
			Nous allons au restaurant. (We are going to the restaurant.)
		Referring to a specific time:
			Je te verrai au dîner. (I will see you at dinner.)
			Rendez-vous au matin. (Meet you in the morning.)
			Je pars au printemps. (I am leaving in the spring.)
		Indicating possession or association:
			C'est la clé au trousseau. (It's the key to the keychain.)
			Il a pris la voiture au père. (He took the car from his father.)
			Les droits d'auteur au livre. (The copyrights to the book.)
	Note that "au" is specifically used with masculine singular nouns. If the noun is feminine singular, "à la" is used instead. For example, "à la maison" (at the house).


The ending "aux" is added in French when combining the preposition "à" (to, at) with the plural definite article "les" (the).
	Here are some common situations where "aux" is used:
		Expressing location or destination:
			Nous allons aux magasins. (We are going to the shops.)
			Ils habitent aux États-Unis. (They live in the United States.)
			Elle est aux toilettes. (She is in the restroom.)
		Referring to a specific time:
			Les cours commencent aux matins. (Classes start in the mornings.)
			Je te verrai aux vacances d'été. (I will see you during the summer holidays.)
			Il est rentré aux dernières heures de la nuit. (He came back in the early hours of the night.)
		Indicating possession or association:
			Les clés appartiennent aux voisins. (The keys belong to the neighbors.)
			Ils ont donné les cadeaux aux enfants. (They gave the gifts to the children.)
			Les droits d'auteur appartiennent aux auteurs. (The copyrights belong to the authors.)
	Note that "aux" is specifically used with plural nouns. If the noun is masculine singular, "au" is used, and if the noun is feminine singular, "à la" is used.





An indefinite article is a word used to introduce a noun that refers to any member of a general category, rather than a particular or specific one. In French, 
the indefinite articles are "un" for masculine singular nouns, "une" for feminine singular nouns, and "des" for plural nouns, regardless of gender.


In French, few nouns can stand alone. Most need to be introduced or 'determined' by an article. As in English, an article is characterized as either definite ('the') or indefinite ('a', 'an'). In French, 
articles are also masculine or feminine, and singular or plural, according to the gender and number of the noun they determine. Here are the indefinite articles in French:
	masculine singular: un 	  	Tex est un tatou.
	Joe-Bob est un écureuil. 	  	Tex is an armadillo.
	Joe-Bob is a squirrel.
	feminine singular: une 	  	Bette est une chatte.
	UT est une université 	  	Bette is a cat. (female)
	UT is a university.
	plural: des 	  	des tatous
	des écureuils
	des chats
	des universités 	  	(some) armadillos
	(some) squirrels
	(some) cats
	(some) universities
	la résidence jester

In the examples above, listen carefully to the difference in pronunciation of un and des before words beginning with a consonant (un tatou, des tatous) and before a words beginning with a vowel sound 
(un écureuil, des écureuils). These are examples of liaison.

uses
	As the English 'a' 'an' or 'some', the indefinite articles un, une, des refer to nouns which are non-specific. Un or une may also indicate quantity, 'a' or 'an' in the sense of 'one.' Contrast the use of the indefinite 
	and definite articles in the first two sentences below. The indefinite plural des is always expressed in French, but its English equivalent 'some' is often omitted.


	Joe-Bob et Corey ont une chambre dans une résidence universitaire à Austin. 	  	Joe-Bob and Corey have a (one) room in a residence hall in Austin.
	Ils ont la chambre numéro 1735 dans la résidence Jester. 	  	They have the room #1735 in the Jester residence hall.
	Joe-Bob et Corey sont des camarades de chambre. 	  	Joe-Bob and Corey are roommates!


'de' after the negative
	In a negative sentence, the indefinite articles un, une, des are replaced by de or d':
	
	Tex: Joe-Bob, tu as un chien? 	  	Tex: Joe-Bob, do you have a dog?'
	Joe-Bob: Mais non! Je n'ai pas de chien. Je suis un écureuil. 	  	Joe-Bob: No, I don't have a dog. I'm a squirrel.
	Tex: Corey, tu as des amis? 	  	Tex: Corey, do you have friends?
	Corey: Mais non! Je n'ai pas d'amis. Je suis un cafard. 	  	Corey: No, I don't have any friends. I'm a cockroach.


	However, following the verb être, the indefinite articles un, une, des remain unchanged in the negative:

	Edouard: Joe-Bob, c'est un écureuil. Ce n'est pas un tatou! 	  	Edouard: Joe-Bob is a squirrel. He is not an armadillo.
	Tex et Tammy, ce sont des tatous. Ce ne sont pas des escargots. 	  	Tex and Tammy are armadillos. They are not snails.

before a plural adjective:
	Before a plural adjective which precedes a noun, des usually becomes de. If the adjective comes after the noun, des does not change to de.
	tex et tammy
	audio 	
	Edouard: Tex et Tammy sont de charmants amoureux. 	  	Edouard: Tex and Tammy are charming lovers.
	Bette: Ah bon? Ce ne sont pas seulement de bons amis? 	  	Bette: Really? They are not just good friends?
	Edouard: Tu ne trouves pas que Tex et Tammy sont des tatous parfaits l'un pour l'autre? 	  	Edouard: Don't you think that Tex and Tammy are armadillos who are perfect for each other?
	Bette: Absolument pas! 	  	Bette: Absolutely not!


with adjectives of profession, nationality, and religion:
	Professions, nationalities and religions are considered adjectives in French and need no article after the verbs être and devenir.


Edouard: Tex devient professeur; il est américain; il n'est pas catholique. 	  	Edouard: Tex is becoming a professor. He is American. He is not Catholic.


Listen to the dialogue:
	Bette et Tammy parlent entre femmes. 	  	Bette and Tammy are talking woman-to-woman.
	Bette: Je n'ai pas de véritables amis! Tout le monde pense que je suis une méchante chatte. 	  	Bette: I have no real friends! Everybody thinks that I am a wicked cat.
	Tammy: Mais non Bette! Toi et moi nous sommes de vieilles amies! 	  	Tammy: That's not true Bette! You and I are old friends!'
	Bette: Oui, mais toi tu as un petit ami tandis que moi je n'ai pas de petit ami! 	  	Bette: Yes, but you have a boyfriend whereas I don't have any boyfriend!
	Tammy: Tu sais Bette, avoir un petit ami ce n'est pas toujours une partie de plaisir, surtout quand il s'appelle Tex! 	  	Tammy: You know Bette, having a boyfriend is not always a fun thing, especially when he's called Tex!
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Basic negation is formed by placing ne ... pas around the conjugated verb. Ne becomes n' in front of a verb starting with a vowel or a mute h.
	tu ne vas pas en cours aujourd'hui?
	Tex: Tu ne vas pas en cours aujourd'hui, Tammy? 	  	Tex: You're not going to class today Tammy?
	Tammy: Non. Je ne vais pas bien. Je ne peux pas manger et j'ai mal à la tête. 	  	Tammy: No. I am not well. I cannot eat and I have a headache.
	Tex: Tu n'as pas de chance! Ce soir, il y a une fête chez Edouard! 	  	Tex: That's too bad [literally 'you are not lucky']! Tonight there is a party at Edouard's!
	Tammy: Tu n'es pas d'un grand réconfort, tu sais! 	  	Tammy: You are not a lot of comfort, you know!

In compound tenses, like the passé composé, the ne ... pas are also placed around the conjugated verb, which is the auxiliary, avoir or être. In the periphrastic future, ne ... pas goes around the verb aller.
	Tex n'a pas été très gentil. 	  	Tex was not very nice.
	Tammy ne va pas passer la soirée chez Edouard. 	  	Tammy is not going to spend the evening at Edouard's.
	
Note that in spoken French, the ne / n' is sometimes dropped. In familiar speech, tu is often pronounced as t' before a vowel.
	Tammy: Tex, t'es (tu es) pas très gentil. 	  	Tammy: Tex, you are not very nice.
	
	
	
	
	
	
Vocabulary - https://www.lexisrex.com/French-Numbers/1-100:
	When spelling out the French numbers 1-100, you do not include the dashes between words for any number which has a 1 digit in the 1's space (11, 21, 31, etc.). 
	1 - 10:  un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six, sept, huit, neuf, dix
	11 - 20: onze, douze, treize, quatorze, quinze, seize, dix-sept, dix-huit, dix-neuf, vingt
	21 - 30: vingt-et-un, vingt-deux, vingt-trois, vingt-quatre, vingt-cinq, vingt-six, vingt-sept, vingt-huit, vingt-neuf, trente
	31 - 40: trente-et-un, trente-deux, trente-trois, trente-quatre, trente-cinq, trente-six, trente-sept, trente-huit, trente-neuf, quarante
	41 - 50: quarante-et-un, quarante-deux, quarante-trois, quarante-quatre, quarante-cinq, quarante-six, quarante-sept, quarante-huit, quarante-neuf, cinquante
	51 - 60: cinquante-et-un, cinquante-deux, cinquante-trois, cinquante-quatre, cinquante-cinq, cinquante-six, cinquante-sept, cinquante-huit, cinquante-neuf, soixante
	61 - 70: soixante-et-un, soixante-duex, soixante-trois, soixante-quatre, soixante-cinq, soixante-six, soixante-sept, soixante-huit, soixante-neuf, soixante-dix
	71 - 79: soixante-et-onze, soixante-douze, soixante-treize, soixante-quatorze, soixante-quinze, soixante-seize, soixante-dix-sept, soixante-dix-huit, soixante-dix-neuf,
	80 - 89: quatre-vingts, quatre-vingt-un, quatre-vingt-deux, quatre-vingt-trois, quatre-vingt-quatre, quatre-vingt-cinq, quatre-vingt-six, quatre-vingt-sept, quatre-vingt-huit, quatre-vingt-neuf
	90 - 99: quatre-vingt-dix, quatre-vingt-onze, quatre-vingt-douze, quatre-vingt-treize, quatre-vingt-quatorze, quatre-vingt-quinze, quatre-vingt-seize, quatre-vingt-dix-sept, quatre-vingt-dix-huit;
	quatre-vingt-dix-neuf, 
	100: cent
	

Feminine or masculine words in French - https://learnfrenchwithalexa.com/blog/how-do-you-determine-gender-in-french:
	The letter e often indicates feminine. Changing from masculine to feminine often means adding an e character. 
	Sometimes you can catagorize words:
		Masculine:
			Les saisons (seasons)
			Les jours   (days)
			Les langues (languages)
			Les fruits  (fruits)
			Les légumes (vegetables)
		
		Feminine:
			Les magasines	 (literature, books, magazines, etc.). 
			Les émotions	 (emotions)
			Les sciences 	 (sciences)
			Les disciplines  (disciplines)
			
	Learn vocabulary with the article. Learn un/une, le/las, etc. so you can easily tell which gender is being referenced;
	E.g. le stylo / un stylo (masculine) | La table / une table (feminine).  
	
	
	
Questions for lab session on May 09, 2022:
	Je ne comprends pas. Pouvez-vous répéter s'il vous plais (en anglais?)
	
	Question: Quel âge as-tu? (informal) Quel âge avez-vous? (formal): How old are you?
	Answer: J'ai vingt-et-un ans, merci de demander. 
	Presenting the age of somebody: Il a <age> ans / Elle a <age> ans. 
	
	Question: Quelle est ta date de naissance? (informal) Quelle est votre date de naissance (formal): What is your date of birth?
	Answer: Ma date de naissance est Mars vingt-deux, deux-zero-zero-deux. 
	Presenting the birth date of somebody: sa date de naissance est ... or La date de naissance de <name> est <date> (le 31 mars 2002)
	
	Question: Quel est ton numéro de téléphone? (informal) Quel est votre numéro de téléphone? (formal): what is your phone number?
	Answer: Mon numéro de téléphone est un-deux-trois quatre-cinq-six sept-huit-neuf
	Presenting the phone number of somebody else: Le numéro de téléphone de Branden est 123-456-789
	
	Question 1: Quelle est ta description physique: What is your physcical description. 
	Answer: Je mesure 1.80m et j'ai la peau claire (My height is 6 feet with light skin). 
	Question 2: Quel est ton charactére: What is your character. 
	Answer: Je ne sais pas (I do not know). 
	
	Question: Quels sont tes goûts (what are your tastes?)
	Answer: j'adore les chats
	You present someone: Branden aime voyager (Branden likes travelling). 
	
	Responses to answers:
		je suis grand/e - je suis petite 	   (I am tall / small)
		j'ai les cheveux noirs/bruns/blonds    (I have black/brown/blond hairs)
		j'ai les yeux noirs/bleurs/verts/bruns (I have black/brown/blue/green eyes)
		Mes cheveux sont noirs/bruns/blonds    (My hairs are black/brown/blond hairs)
		Mes yeux sont bleus 				   (My eyes are blue)
		J'ai 								  = I have 
		Mes cheveux sont					  = My hairs are
		Il/Elle a les yeux bleus 			   (He/she has blue eyes)
		Ses yeux sont bleus					   (his/her eyes are blue)
		
		
		
	Colour of physical feature will come after the noun
	Je suis grand (masculine) je suis grande (feminine)
	J'ai les cheveux (singular masculine) bruns (I have brown hair)
	J'ai les yeux (masculine) bruns 
	
	
	In French all adjectives agree in gender and in numbers. 
	Some adjectives are irregular:
		beautiful:
			(masculine/singular) 						- il est beau 
			(feminine/singular)  						- elle est belle
			(masculine/plural)   						- ils sont beaux 
			(feminine/plural)    						- elles sont belles
			(masculine/singular beginning with a vowel) - le bel appartement 
		old:
			(masculine/singular)						- il est vieux
			(feminine/singular)							- elle est vieille
			(masculine/plural)							- ils sont vieux
			(feminine/plural)							- elles sont vieilles 
			(masculine/singular beginning with vowel)	- un vieil appartement
			
	When talking about your character (personality), use 'je suis':
		je suis calme; je suis timide; 
		je suis sérieux (sérieuse)
		je suis sportif (sportive)
		
	
	Most of the time, when there is an -e, the ending stays the same.
	When ending in -if, feminine ending changes to -ive. -ifs/-ives for plural.
	-es ending for plural. 
	Most of the time, plural form is s. 
	-ieux (masculine) -euse (feminine) -ieux/-euses (plural m/s). 
	-é (m) -ée(f)	-és/-ées (plural) 
	
	
	Quels sont tes goûtes? Quels sont vos goûts? What are your tastes?
	adorer   (to love)
	aimer    (to like)
	détester (to hate)
	
	-er ending regular verbs will be conjugated all the same
	étudier-parler-voyager-travailler
	j'aime			       - apostrophe because of the two vowels
	tu aimes			   
	elle/il/iel/on aime
	nous aimons
	vous aimez
	elles/ils aiment
	
	j'adore jouer
	j'adore le chocolat
	j'aime la musique
	je déteste les chats
	je déteste étudier / je déteste les études
	
	
Physical description study notes - https://www.laits.utexas.edu/fi/voc/04#030:
	Face:
		la tête 			- head
		les cheveux 		- hair
		le front 			- forehead
		les sourcil 		- eyebrows
		les yeux			- eyes
		le nez				- nose
		les joues			- cheeks
		les oreille			- ears
		la bouche			- mouth
		les dents			- teeth
		le menton			- chin
		le cou				- neck
	
	Les couleurs:
		blanc				- black	(blanche)
		bleu				- blue	(bleue)
		gris				- gray	(grise)
		jaune				- yellow
		marron (invariable) - brown
		noir 				- black (noire)
		orange (invariable) - orange
		rogue				- red
		vert				- green	(verte)
		violet				- purple(violette)
		
	Physical characteristics:
		Quelle est votre taille? 							- What's your height?
		Je fais 1 m. 60. 									- I'm one meter 60
		De taille moyenne									- Of medium height
		Combien pesez-vous?									- How much do you weigh?
		Je fais 55 kilos									- I weight 55 kilos
		Maigre												- Thin, skinny
		Mince												- This, slender
		De quelle couleur sont vos cheveux? 				- What colour is your hair?
		J'ai les cheveux blonds <colour>    				- I have <colour> hair
		Il est ... Elle est									- He is ... She is ...
		blond. blonde.										- A blond
		brun. brune.										- A brunette
		roux. rousse.										- A red-head
		Comment est-il coiffé?								- What is his hair like?
		Il a les cheveux longs / courts / boucles / raides 	- He has long / short / curly / straight hair
		De quelle couleur sont vos yeux?					- What colour are your eyes?
		J'ai les yeux marron								- I have brown eyes
		Quelle est la forme de son visage? 					- What's the shape of his face?
		Il a le visage carré / long / rond					- He has a square / long / round face
		Il a le nez retroussé / pointu						- He a snub / pointed nose
		Il a de grandes oreilles							- He has big ears
		Il/Elle a 											- He/She has
		Des lunettes 										- glasses
		Une cicatrice 										- scar
		Un piercing											- Body piercing
		Un tatouage											- Tattoo 
		
		
	Feminine ending - The ending is different depending on the ending of the adjective:
		-t -> -te			petit 			-> petite
		-d -> -de			grand 			-> grande
		-os -> -osse		gros  			-> grosse
		-et -> -ette		fluet 			-> fluette 
		-é -> -ée			musclé 			-> musclée		
		-i -> -ie			extraverti		-> extravertie
		-u -> -ue			chevelu			-> chevelue
		-e -> -e
			mince			-> mince
			chauve			-> chauve
			sympathique		-> sympathique
			timide			-> timide
		
		-x -> -se
			généreux 		-> généreuse
			jaloux			-> jalouse
			
			
			
Les articles et la négation - https://www.lepointdufle.net/ressources_fle/articles_negation.htm:
	Articles définis (Definite articles):
		le 		-> ne ... pas LE
		la		-> ne ... pas LA
		l'		-> ne ... pas L'
		les		-> ne ... pas LES
		Example:
			Il ouvre la porte -> Il n'ouvre pas la porte
			
	Articles indéfinis (Indefinite articles):
		un, une, des -> ne ... pas DE ; ne ... pas D' ; ne ... pas D'
		Example:
			Il a un chien -> Il n'a pas de chien
			
		Sauf avec être:
			C'est un jeu amusant -> Ce n'est pas un jeu amusant
			
	Articles partitifs (partial articles):
		du, de la, de l' -> ne ... pas DE ; ne ... pas D' 
		Example:
			Il a de l'argent -> Il n'a pas d'argent
		
		Sauf avec être:
			C'est de la musique -> Ce n'est pas de la musique
			

Pronoms sujets 	Aimer 	Adorer 	Détester
je/j’

tu

il/elle/on

nous

vous

ils/elles
	aime

aimes

aime

aimons

aimez

aiment
	adore

adores

adore

adorons

adorez

adorent
	déteste

détestes

déteste

détestons

détestez

détestent

For the first person singular (je/I): -e, -s, -x
For the second person singular (tu/you): -es, -s
For the third person singular (il/elle/he/she): -e, -t
For the first person plural (nous/we): -ons, -ons
For the second person plural (vous/you): -ez, -ez
For the third person plural (ils/elles/they): -ent, -ent


Adjectif:
	In French, an adjective usually placed after the noun it modifies and must agree in gender and number with the noun.
	E.g.:
		Tex est un tatou philosophique
		Edouard est un escargot raffiné
		Bette est une chatte capricieuse 
		
	In French, adjectives modify nouns and adverbs modify verbs, adjectives, and other adverbs:
		Tex écrit bien 				(adverb modifies verb)
			(adverb modifies verb)
			
		La poésie de Tex est bonne 	(adjective modifies noun)
			(adjective modifies noun)
			
			
	
	
Lab session meeting May 11, 2023:
	BANGS: Come before the noun
		Beauty
		Age
		Number
		Goodness
		Size
		
	All the other adjectives come after the noun
		la pomme (grand / vert) 		-> la grande pomme vert
		un ordinateur (nouveau/noir) 	-> un nouveal ordinateur noir

	la négation:
		j'ai ne pas 20 ans. 
		Pattern: subject + ne + conjugated verb + pas
		je joue - je ne joue pas
		-un/une/des/du/de la/ de l' becomes de as the negation always
		
		E.g.:
			j'ai un frère - je n'ai pas de frère
			j'ai des frères - je n'ai pas de frères
			j'aime le chocolat - je n'aime pas le chocolat
			
			The only exception is there is no change with the verb 'to be': c'est une belle maison - ce n'est pas une belle maison
			
	No article before a profession
	
	
	Mon pères prenom est Gary est nom de famille est Graham. Son cheveux colour est brune et le colour de son yeux et brune. 
	Il est à grand taille homme avec à compétitif, travailleur et arrogant personnalité. Il aime les chiens et bonne la nourriture. 
	Il déteste les chats et la cuisine. Il est a un électricien. 

	Ma mère prenom et Tasha est nom de famille est Graham. Elle a gris colorée cheveux et le bleu yeux. 
	Elle a besoin lunettes et elle adore toute animaux. Elle à a créatif, sensible et honnête personnalité. 
	Elle aime la cuisine et bonne la nourriture. Elle à peau claire. Elle est un vétérinaire. 

	Mon soeur prenom et Emily est nom de famille est Graham. Elle a brun colorée cheveux et le bleu yeux et a le 
	visage rond. Elle est mince et surpoids. 

	Mon partenaire est Branden

	Branden a un frère. Il a une mère et un pères. Le frère de Brandon a dix-huit ans. Le frère de Brandon est canadien et russe. 
	Le frère de Brandon est un ètudiant est ètudie informatique. Le frère de Brandon cheveux colour est brune et est à grand. 
	Le frère de Brandon aime la nourriture.
		
		
	
	Everything in Quebec must be translated to a French word from their English form
	
	le restaurant rapide
	la nourriture rapide
	
	
	Module 2 video assignment:
		Je vais vous présenter mon père. Le prénom de mon père est Gary et son nom de famille est Graham. 
		Il est de nationalité canadien. Son cheveux et yeux sont bruns. Il est un homme grand et fort, avec un personnalité 
		compétitive, travailleuse et arrogante. Il est électricien. Il aime les chiens et la bonne nourriture. 
		Il déteste les chats et la cuisine. Il ne lit pas de livres. Il ne ment à personne. 
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
Module 1 notes:
	In French a simple sentence will always be composed like the following:
	Writing French accents with an international keyboard:
		To type accent grave á, é, etc. type the ` character then the vowel
		To type accent aigu é type the character ' then e
		To type Cédille ç type the character ' then c
		To type Circonflexe ê type the character ^ then e
		To type Tréma ö type the character " then o
		To type French quotation marks use the following: ctrl + alt + [ = « and ctrl + alt + ] = »
	
		
	Subject + Conjugated verb + a complement
	
	Conjugated verbs are verbs which have been changed to communicate one or more of the following: person, number, gender, tense, aspect, mood, or voice. 
	A verb is a word that describes what the subject of a sentence is doing. Verbs can indicate actions, occurences, and states of being. 
	
	The predicate of a sentence is one of the two main sentence components along with the subject. The predicate provides information about the subject, describing what the subject is doing or what is being said about it. 
	
	
	E.g.:
		Jeffrey BUILDS a house
		Anita IS THINKING about horses
		True love EXISTS
	
	The complement is a description of something (adjectives, nouns, etc.). 
	Conjugate is what you do to a word to make it agree with other words in a sentence. 
	Conjugation in French refers to the process of altering the form of a verb to indicate various grammatical aspects such as tense, mood, voice, person, and number.
	
	Je suis professeur			| I am a teacher			'Je' is the subject; 'suis' is the verb conjugated depending on 'Je' 
	Elle a 48 ans
	Marc adore le chocolat		| Marc loves the cholocate  'Marc' name; therefore, 'adore' is conjugated depending on Marc. 

	
	
	A pronoun replaces a noun in order to avoid repetition. Subject pronouns are subjects of verbs. In French, a subject pronoun is immediately or almost immediately followed by its verb. The use of subject pronouns is mandatory
	in French; always use a subject pronoun to construct sentences in the absence of a noun subject. Here are the French subject pronouns:
	E.g.
	
	je / j' = I
	Tu 		= You (Informal)
	Elle 	= She
	Il		= He
	On		= One/we (Colloquial)
	Nous	= We
	Vous	= You (Formal or you as a group)
	Elles 	= They (Plural feminine)
	Ils		= They (Plural masculine)
	
	
	Conjugaison
	
		Verbes pronominaux / pronominal verbs or reflexive verbs
		The pronominal verbs are structured with a reflexible pronoun << se >> = se lever. This pronoun will always agree with the subject. For example, je me lève (I get up myself).
		
	
		In French when you introduce yourself, you would say 'Je m'appelle Jacob' -> I call myself Jacob
		Tu t'appelles -> "What do you call yourself?". t'appelles is a conjugated form of the reflexible verb "s'appeler" which means 'to call oneself' or 'to be called' in English. 
		
		In French, verbs change their forms to match different subjects, tenses, and moods. These modified forms are called conjugated forms. Conjugation is the process of altering the verb to agree with the subject 
		and express various grammatical aspects. Verbs can be conjugated in different tenses and moods. Each tense and mood has its own set of conjugated forms. 
		
		For example, the verb 'parler' (to speak) in the present tenths can be conjugated as follows:
			Je parle  			(I speak)
			Tu parles 			(You speak)
			Il/Elle parle		(He/She speak)
			Nous parlons		(We speak)
			Vous parlez			(You speak)
			Ils/Elles parlent 	(They speak)
		
		First person  - I
		Second person - You
		Third person  - He
			

		The endings -e, -z, -t, -s, and -ent are different forms of verb endings in French, and they indicate conjugation patterns based on the subject and tense. Here's a breakdown of their usage:

		-e: This ending is typically found in the first-person singular form (je) of verbs in various tenses. For example:
			Je parle (I speak)
			Je mange (I eat)
			Je chante (I sing)
			
		-z: This ending is present in the second-person plural form (vous) of verbs in different tenses. For example:
			Vous parlez (You [plural] speak)
			Vous mangez (You [plural] eat)
			Vous chantez (You [plural] sing)
			
		-t: This ending appears in the second-person singular form (tu) of verbs in certain tenses. For example:
			Tu parles (You [singular] speak)
			Tu manges (You [singular] eat)
			Tu chantes (You [singular] sing)
			
		-s: This ending is seen in the third-person singular form (il/elle/on) of verbs in the present tense for regular -er verbs. For example:
			Il parle (He speaks)
			Elle mange (She eats)
			On chante (One/We sing)
			
		-ent: This ending is used in the third-person plural form (ils/elles) of verbs in different tenses. For example:
			Ils parlent (They speak)
			Elles mangent (They eat)
			Ils chantent (They sing)		
		

Note that in compound tenses, "avoir" is used with most verbs to form the passé composé, while a few verbs (such as "aller," "venir," and "partir") use "être" as the auxiliary verb.

	Singular verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Je (I): -e
				Tu (You): -es
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -e
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Je (I): -is
				Tu (You): -is
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -it
			For regular -re verbs:
				Je (I): -s
				Tu (You): -s
				Il/elle/on (He/she/one): -t
				Plural verb endings:
		Plural verb endings:
			For regular -er verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
			For regular -ir verbs:
				Nous (We): -issons
				Vous (You): -issez
				Ils/elles (They): -issent
			For regular -re verbs:
				Nous (We): -ons
				Vous (You): -ez
				Ils/elles (They): -ent
				
	Être stands for (to be).
	"Êtes" is the second-person plural (you all) conjugation of the verb "être" in the present tense in French. 
	The verb endings for "être" in the present tense are:
		- Je suis (I am)
		- Tu es (You are singular, informal)
		- Il/Elle/On est (He/She/One is)
		- Nous sommes (We are)
		- Vous êtes (You are plural, formal or informal)
		- Ils/Elles sont (They are)
	In the past tense, the verb "être" uses the auxiliary verb "avoir" to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé with "être" as the auxiliary verb:
		- Je suis allé(e) (I went, masculine/feminine)
		- Tu es allé(e) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Il/Elle/On est allé(e) (He/She/One went, masculine/feminine)
		- Nous sommes allé(e)s (We went, masculine/feminine)
		- Vous êtes allé(e)(s) (You went, masculine/feminine)
		- Ils/Elles sont allé(e)s (They went, masculine/feminine)
	Note that the past participle of "être" is "été", which is used in the passé composé with "avoir". The auxiliary verb "être" 
	is used with certain verbs of motion, reflexive verbs, and intransitive verbs to form the passé composé, the plus-que-parfait, 
	and other compound tenses.
	
	
	Here are the verb endings for "avoir" (to have) in the present tense and the past tense:
		Present tense:
			- J'ai (I have)
			- Tu as (You have singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a (He/She/One has)
			- Nous avons (We have)
			- Vous avez (You have plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont (They have)
		The past tense of "avoir" is used as an auxiliary verb to form compound tenses such as the passé composé. 
		Here are the verb endings for "avoir" in the passé composé:
		Past tense:
			- J'ai eu (I had)
			- Tu as eu (You had singular, informal)
			- Il/Elle/On a eu (He/She/One had)
			- Nous avons eu (We had)
			- Vous avez eu (You had plural, formal or informal)
			- Ils/Elles ont eu (They had)

			
	In French, the most common verb endings depend on the type of verb. Here are the endings for the three main verb groups:
		1. Regular -er verbs:
		   - Singular: -e, -es
		   - Plural: -e, -ons, -ez, -ent
		   The verb ending e is used as a singular ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (je/I) of regular -er verbs. 
		   The verb ending es is used as a singular ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (tu/you) of regular -er verbs. 
		   
		   The verb ending ons is used as a plural ending for the first-person present tense conjugation (nous/we) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ez is used as a plural ending for the second-person present tense conjugation (vous/you) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs.
		   The verb ending ent is used as a plural ending for the third-person present tense conjugation (ils/elles/they) of regular -er, -ir, and -re verbs. 

		Example: Parler (to speak)
		- Je parle (I speak)
		- Tu parles (You speak)
		- Il/elle/on parle (He/she/one speaks)
		- Nous parlons (We speak)
		- Vous parlez (You speak)
		- Ils/elles parlent (They speak)

		2. Regular -ir verbs:
		   - Singular: -is, -is
		   - Plural: -it, -issons, -issez, -issent

		Example: Finir (to finish)
		- Je finis (I finish)
		- Tu finis (You finish)
		- Il/elle/on finit (He/she/one finishes)
		- Nous finissons (We finish)
		- Vous finissez (You finish)
		- Ils/elles finissent (They finish)

		3. Regular -re verbs:
		   - Singular: -s, -s
		   - Plural: -t, -ons, -ez, -ent

		Example: Vendre (to sell)
		- Je vends (I sell)
		- Tu vends (You sell)
		- Il/elle/on vend (He/she/one sells)
		- Nous vendons (We sell)
		- Vous vendez (You sell)
		- Ils/elles vendent (They sell)
		
		aller  'to go'
			je vais 			nous allons
			tu vas 				vous allez
			il/elle/on va 		ils/elles vont
			
			past participle allé
		
		The verb "avoir" (to have) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "avoir" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): J'ai (I have)

			Second person singular (you): Tu as (you have)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle a (he/she/it has)

			First person plural (we): Nous avons (we have)

			Second person plural (you): Vous avez (you have)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles ont (they have)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				J'ai une voiture. (I have a car.)
				Tu as un livre. (You have a book.)
				Il a un chien. (He has a dog.)
				Nous avons une maison. (We have a house.)
				Vous avez des amis. (You have friends.)
				Ils ont des stylos. (They have pens.)
				
				These are the present tense forms of "avoir" for the different persons in French.

		The verb "être" (to be) conjugates differently in each person. Here are the first, second, and third-person forms of the verb "être" in the present tense:

			First person singular (I): Je suis (I am)

			Second person singular (you): Tu es (you are)

			Third person singular (he/she/it): Il/Elle est (he/she/it is)

			First person plural (we): Nous sommes (we are)

			Second person plural (you): Vous êtes (you are)

			Third person plural (they): Ils/Elles sont (they are)

			Here are a few example sentences using these conjugations:

				Je suis étudiant(e). (I am a student.)
				Tu es mon ami. (You are my friend.)
				Il est médecin. (He is a doctor.)
				Nous sommes en vacances. (We are on vacation.)
				Vous êtes très gentils. (You are very kind.)
				Ils sont français. (They are French.)

				These are the present tense forms of "être" for the different persons in French.

	French alphabet:		A E I O U
		A - 'ahh'
		B - 'bay'
		C - 'sey'
		D - 'dey'
		E - 'uehh'
		F - 'eff'
		G - 'ghay'
		H - 'aesh'
		I - 'ee'
		J - 'ghee'
		K - 'kah'
		L - 'ell'
		M - 'emm'
		N - 'enn'
		O - 'oh'
		P - 'peh'
		Q - 'qkoo'
		R - 'aairh'
		S - 'ess'
		T - 'teh'
		U - 'ooeeww'
		V - 'veh'
		W - 'doo-blah-veh'
		X - 'eeks'
		Y - 'eegrek'
		Z - 'zed'
		
		A is prounounced more like 'AY'
		E is prounounced more like 'Ah' 
		Ghee is J, G is Jhay.
		O is pronounced more like 'ooh', E is more like 'oe'. 
			Bonjour, Je suis trés bien, merci vous de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. 
		Anglais est ma angue maternalle et je parle limité français. Je suis vingt-et-un ans et js suis canadienne. 
		Je habite à Barrie et je aime chats. Mon numéro de téléphone est one duex trois - quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf. 
			Bonjour, je m'appelle Jacob, merci vous de demander. Je suis Canadienne est je vingt-et-un ans. Mon adresse est quatorze 
		exemple de rue. Mon numéro de téléphone est un-deux-trois quatre-cinq-siz sept-huit-neuf
			Bonjour, je m'appelle jacob. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille Graham. Mon prénom est m'épelle ghee-ah-sey-oh-
			bay et mon nom de famille est m'épelle jhay-eearh
		et mon nom de famille est m'épelle G R A H A M. Je suis canadienne est je suis vingt-une. Au reviour and bonne journée!
		
	French numbers 1 to 100:
		0 - Zéro	10 - Dix				10 - Dix
		1 - Un		11 - Onze				20 - Vingt
		2 - Deux	12 - Deuze				30 - Trente
		3 - Trois	13 - Treize				40 - Quarante
		4 - Quatre	14 - Quatorze			50 - Cinquante
		5 - Cinq	15 - Quinze				60 - Soixante
		6 - Siz		16 - Seize				70 - Soixante-dix
		7 - Sept	17 - Dix-sept			80 - Quatre-vingt
		8 - Huit	18 - Dix-huit			90 - Quatre-vingt-dix
		9 - Neuf	19 - Dix-neuf			100 - Cent
					20 - Vingt
		
	An adjactive is a word that describes a noun or a pronoun. In French, an adjective is usually placed after the noun it modifies and must agree in gender and number with the noun. 
	In French, adjectives are not written with a capital letter. 
	To get the feminine version of the adjective, you add an -e to the masculine form: français / française.
	If the name of the adjective of nationality ends with -e, the word stays the same: Paul est suisse / Marie est suisse.
	For the plural form, you add a -s to the singular form: française / françaises.
	If the name of the adjective of nationality ends with -s at the singular form, the word stays the same: Paul est français / Paul et Marc sont français.
	
	When the 
	
	
GRAMMER - Grammaire
	Structure de la phrase simple - Simple sentence structure:
		Sentence structure: Bart is playing football / Bart joue au football
		
		1. Who/what performs the action
		2. The action itself
		3. What is being performed / acted upon
		
		Bart's head is the person, his leg kicking the ball is the action, and the football / soccerball is the thing being acted upon.
		
		There are three main jobs that a word/group of words can have in a sentence:
			Le verbe 				- The doing or action word
			Le sujet 				- What/who is performing the action
			Le complément d'objet	- What/who the action is acted upon 
			
			Bart (le sujet) joue (le verbe) au football (Le complément d'objet). 
			
	When analyzing a sentence, you need to first find the verb (action). Once you have the action, you can find the subject. 
	
	Lisa is reading a book
	1) Find the verb:
		What is happening
		What is the action
		=> is reading
		
	2) Find the subject:
		Who/What + verb
		Who / what is reading?
		=> Lisa
		
	3) Find the object - This is much easier if you already know the verb and subject:
		Subject + verb + what? - Lisa is reading what?
		Sujet + verbe + quoi?
	
	Common noun endings for masculine and feminine:
		Masculine: -age, -ege, -isme, -acle, -eau, -ier, -oir
		Feminine: -tion, -sion, -ude, -ance, -ence, -ée, -ie
		
		
	Practice sentence structure:
		Quel est le sujet dans la phrase suivante? 
		What is the subject in the following sentence? 
	
	
	
How can you tell if a noun is feminine or masculine? - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8lzZmJm2Qk
	Every noun has a gender, regardless of singular or plural nouns. 
	
	The easiest way to tell the gender of the noun is by looking at the last letter. If the noun ends with an e, the noun is feminine. Nouns which end with any other letter are generally masculine. 
	We use (le / un) for masculine nouns and (la / une) for feminine nouns. 
	
	Some masculine endings: age, ment, eau, oir.
	Some feminine endings:  tion, sion, té, euse.
	Feminine endings: -e, -ée, -tion, -sion, -ance, -ence, -ette
	Masculine endings: -age, -ege, -oir, -isme, -age, -on, -er
	
	Sometimes the gender of a noun influences the sentence.
	


Why knowing the gender of a French word is important - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lrroi3X0Y_g:
	First reason:
		le (the) and un (a) are used in front of a masculine noun. la (the) and une (a) are used in front of a feminine noun. les (the) and des (some) used in front of a plural noun regardless of gender. 
		
		All adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun they qualify. Le stylo vert est petit (the green pen is small).
		If doing the above sentence in feminine form, you would write La fleur verte est petite (the green flower is small). 
		In plural form:
			Les stylos verts sont petits (The green pens are small)
			Les fleurs vertes sont petites (The green flowers are small)
			
		First reason because the gender of a French word determines the order of words in the sentence
		
	Second reason:
		All possessive pronouns and adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun used. 
		Mon stylo est vert (My pen is green). We use 'Mon' because stylo is masculine. The word is 'vert' instead of 'verte' because the word is masculine instead of feminine. 
		By extension, we say 'Le mien est vert' (Mine is green) because stylo is masculine.
		Ma fleur est verte (My flower is green). 
		La mienne est verte (Mine is green). 
		
	Third reason:
		All demonstrative pronouns and adjectives agree in number and gender with the noun used.
		
		

French grammar in 35 minutes - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9q7nx6kzvD0:
	Recap of the grammar course:
		Le phrase simple - Subject + conjugated verb + article + noun
		E.g. Je mange une pomme: I am eating an apple. Adding an e character onto un because je is used. Une is the verb in the sentence / noun.
		Je mange un abricot - Masculine singular
		Je mange une pomme - I am eating an apple
		Je mange des carises - I am eating some cherries
		
		
	Gender of nouns:
		90% of nouns ending with E are feminine. Always study the gender of nouns at the same time as you study vocabulary. 
		ChatGPT

		Determining the gender of a noun in French can be challenging, as there are few rules that universally apply. However, here are some tips that can help in identifying or making educated guesses about the gender of a noun:

			Pay attention to the ending: While not foolproof, certain noun endings are more commonly associated with a specific gender. For example:

			Masculine endings: -age, -ege, -oir, -isme, -age, -on, -er
			Feminine endings: -e, -ée, -ion, -sion, -ance, -ence, -ette

		Look for patterns: Certain categories of words tend to have a specific gender. For instance:

			Most nouns referring to males or males of a species are masculine.
			Nouns denoting female beings or females of a species are typically feminine.
			Nouns related to professions or occupations often have a specific gender associated with them.

		Learn gender with the noun: When learning new vocabulary, make a conscious effort to learn the noun together with its corresponding gender. For example, instead of just learning "table," learn "une table" (feminine) or 
		"un livre" (masculine).

		Pay attention to article and adjective agreement: The choice of definite (le, la) and indefinite (un, une) articles, as well as the agreement of adjectives, can give clues about the gender of a noun.

		Be cautious of exceptions: It's important to remember that there are numerous exceptions to gender patterns in French, and many nouns simply need to be learned individually.

		Developing a good understanding of noun gender in French takes time and practice. Engaging with the language through reading, listening, and speaking will gradually improve your ability to determine the gender of nouns. 
		Additionally, consulting a dictionary or language resource can provide guidance on specific nouns.
		
		
	Le pluriel des noms:
		When a noun ends with E, OU, AIL, R, T, L, ON, AN, IN, UM, add an s.  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Une ville -> Des Villes (Cities)
		When a noun ends with EAU, AU, EU add an x. 						  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un oiseau -> Des oiseaux (Birds)
		When a noun ends with AL, add an AUX								  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un cheval (horse) -> Des chevaux (Horses)						
		When a noun ends with S, X, or Z, add nothing						  (Le pluriel des noms)
			E.g. Un bras (an arm) -> Des bras (arms)		
		
	Subject pronouns (Les pronoms sujets):
		Singular
			Je / J' - I
			Tu		- You
			Il		- He/It
			Elle	- She/It
			On		- We
		Pluriel
			Nous	- We
			Vous	- You
			Ils		- They
			Elles	- They
		
	Je veux de fromage - Masculine singular (I want some cheese)
	Je veux de la confiture - Feminine singular (I want some jam)
	Je veux de l'eau - Singular noun starting with silent h (I want some water)
	Je veux des croissants - Plural noun regardless of gender (I want some croissants) 
	
	C'est is a contraction of Ce est
	C'est / Ce sont - Il est - For person, things, nationalities, and jobs
	 C'est une femme (This is a woman)
	 C'est un homme  (This is a man)
	 C'est beau		 (It's beautiful)
	 C'est bien		 (It's good)
	 
	Il est is commonly used for third-person singular masculine form.
	Il est beau (It's beautiful / He is beautiful)
	Il est deux heures (It's two o'clock)
	Il est suisse (He is swiss)
	Il est professeur (He is a teacher)
	
	
	Demonstrating adjectives:
		Ce - Masculine singular; Cette - Feminine singular; Cet for when adjective starts with silent h; Ces for plural adjectives
	
	French numbers:
		0 - Zéro	10 - Dix				10 - Dix
		1 - Un		11 - Onze				20 - Vingt
		2 - Deux	12 - Deuze				30 - Trente
		3 - Trois	13 - Treize				40 - Quarante
		4 - Quatre	14 - Quatroze			50 - Cinquante
		5 - Cinq	15 - Quinze				60 - Soixante
		6 - Siz		16 - Seize				70 - Soixante-dix
		7 - Sept	17 - Dix-sept			80 - Quatre-vingt
		8 - Huit	18 - Dix-huit			90 - Quatre-vingt-dix
		9 - Neuf	19 - Dix-neuf			100 - Cent
					20 - Vingt
					
	
	Negation in French - Generally used with 'Ne pas'; used to indicate the abscence or negation of an action, state, or condition.
		Ne ... pas - Not
		Ne ... plus - No longer / Not anymore
		Ne ... jamais - Never
		Ne ... que - Only
		Ne ... rien - Nothing
		Ne ... pas encore - Not yet
		Ne ... personne - Nobody / No one
		Ne ... ni ... ni - Neither ... nor
		
		Conjugaison au présent: AVOIR/ÊTRE/S'APPELER/verbes réguliers -ER / Present conjugation : HAVE/BE/TO CALL ONESELF / regular verbs -ER
		
		

Class lab session on May 05, 2022 at 6:00 pm:
	French is a very gendered language
	Pronoms:
	Je - I
	Tu - You
	Elle - She
	Il - He
	Iel - They
	Nous - We
	Vous - You (Formal in a group)
	Elles-they (f)
	Ils-they (m)
	
	
	Comment tu t'appelles? 
	Comment t'appelles-tu?
	Comment vous appelez? 
	Comment vous appelez vous?
	
	Quelle est ton adresse? ...votre adresse?
	Quel est ton numéro de téléphone?... votre numéro..?
	Quelle est ta nationalité?..votre nationalité?
	Quel âge as-tu? 
	Quel âge avez-vous?
	
	Never pronounce constants at the end of a sentence. 
	Proposition must go before different states and provinces. 
	
	Most constants at ends of word are not pronounced. We pronounce an(s)-est-e(st):
	e at the end of words is not pronounced. Telephone is pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
	
	s'appeler (to call oneself):
		ja m'appelle
		tu t'appelles
		elle/il s'appelle
		nous nouus appelons 
		vous vous appelez
		elles/ils sáppellent
		
	être (to be):
		je suis
		tu es
		elle/il est
		nous sommes
		vous êtes
		elles/ils sont
		
	to have - avoir:
		j'ai
		tu as
		elle/il a 
		nous avons
		vous avez
		elles/ils ont
		
	
	Pronounciation:
		Most consonnants at the end of words are not pronounced: ans-an(s) est-e(st)
		"e" at the end of words is not pronounced téléphoN(e) - ruSS(e) - D(e)
		
		
Class discussion thread for presenting yourself:
	Bonjour, Je suis trés bien, merci vous de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. 
	Anglais est ma angue maternalle et je parle limité français. 
	Je suis vingt-et-un ans et js suis canadienne. Je habite à Barrie et je aime chats. Mon numéro de téléphone est one duex trois 
	- quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf. 
	
	Corrected paragraph: 
		Bonjour, je vais très bien, merci de demander. Mon prénom est Jacob et mon nom de famille est Graham. 
		Ma langue maternelle est l'anglais et je parle un peu français. 
		J'ai vingt-et-un ans et je suis canadien. J'habite à Barrie et j'aime les chats. 
		Mon numéro de téléphone est un deux trois - quatre cinq six - sept huit neuf
		
	Mistakes:
		je vais très bien: In French, you would say " I am going well"

		Be careful with the structure of your sentences:

		"ma langue maternelle est l'anglais

		j'ai 21 ans : in French you say "I have 21 years"

		je suis canadien (masculin)

		j'habite-j'aime : contraction because of the 2 vowels

		J'aime les chats: there is an article before the noun

		un-deux : be careful with the spelling of your numbers